China commemorates 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration, pooling strength for reunification - People's Daily Online Wang Huning, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), addresses a meeting commemorating the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration to China, in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 25, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) BEIJING, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- A meeting commemorating the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration to China was held in Beijing on Saturday, the first Commemoration Day of Taiwan's Restoration. Addressing the gathering of about 500 attendees, Wang Huning, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, called on compatriots on both sides of the Taiwan Strait to work together to advance national reunification, and to leave no room for "Taiwan independence" separatist activities in any form. The event was organized following a decision by China's national legislature on Friday to designate Oct. 25 as the official commemorative day. In 1894, Japan initiated a war against China and then occupied Taiwan. On Oct. 25, 1945, a ceremony to accept Japan's surrender in the Taiwan Province of the China war theater of the Allied powers was held in Taipei. From that point on, Taiwan and the Penghu Islands returned to China's sovereign jurisdiction. Wang, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, noted that the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and Taiwan's restoration to China represented a great triumph and a shared glory of the Chinese people and the Chinese nation. The establishment of the commemorative day demonstrates the unwavering commitment of all Chinese people to uphold the one-China principle and safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity, he emphasized. It also reflects the CPC's steadfast resolve to fulfill its historical mission and achieve complete reunification of the motherland, he said, adding that it has further strengthened the international consensus that there is only one China, and that Taiwan is an inalienable part of that one China. At this important time to bear history in mind and forge ahead together, Wang stressed that people on both sides of the Strait should shoulder their historical responsibilities in promoting peaceful development of cross-Strait relations and realizing national rejuvenation. The top political advisor emphasized the importance of adhering to peaceful reunification and the "one country, two systems" policy, as well as upholding the one-China principle and the 1992 Consensus. He called for joint efforts to safeguard the major achievements of victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression, deepen cross-Strait exchanges and integration, uphold the overall interests of the Chinese nation, and strive for national rejuvenation. 