International festival in Wudang Mountains promotes Tai Chi, cultural exchange - People's Daily Online WUHAN, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- The International Wudang Tai Chi Culture Festival opened Saturday at the foot of the Wudang Mountains, a UNESCO World Heritage Site in central China's Hubei Province, drawing more than 2,000 participants from 32 countries and regions. The week-long festival aims to promote traditional Chinese culture and encourage dialogue between civilizations through martial arts, tourism, and cultural exchange. In his opening remarks, Ju Zhaohui, minister of Hubei's publicity department, said that more than 10 million visitors from home and abroad come to Wudang each year to practice martial arts, cultivate health, and explore Taoist culture. "This fully demonstrates Wudang Mountain's significant value as a world cultural heritage site and the timeless vitality of Tai Chi culture," Ju said. "We will continue to protect and pass on this heritage, striving to make Wudang the global center of Tai Chi culture. By organizing Tai Chi-themed exchanges and exploring its contemporary meaning, we aim to ensure that Tai Chi remains vibrant for generations to come." Peter Semone, president of the Pacific Asia Travel Association, said the philosophy of Tai Chi offers a lesson for the modern age. "In this fast-changing era, Tai Chi offers a sanctuary for the spirit," Semone said. "It teaches us to face turbulence with tranquility, to meet force with flexibility, and to find balance amid life's constant demands." He added that today's travelers increasingly seek journeys of "spiritual enrichment, emotional connection, and inner peace," describing Wudang as a destination that offers "the blending of nature, cultural depth, and personal growth." "Here in Wudang, visitors can refresh both body and mind to the sounds of temple bells and drums," Semone said. "They can feel the pulse of nature in drifting clouds and whispering pines, and witness the living heritage of civilization in the serenity of ancient temples." The Wudang Tai Chi International Fellowship Competition, which began on Friday, features over 1,500 athletes competing in individual, pairs, and group events across multiple Tai Chi styles and age categories from children to seniors. Among the competitors is Thomas Weib, a 53-year-old participant from Germany, who has practiced Tai Chi for a decade. "Tai Chi movements look slow, but that's to help us precisely control our posture and actions," Weib said. "Through Tai Chi, I've learned to calm my mind and reflect on the essence of life. What makes it truly special is how it acts as a bridge, connecting people from different countries and languages." The 2025 International Wudang Tai Chi Culture Festival will run through Nov. 15, with more than a dozen major events planned, including a master lecture series, an international tourism cooperation forum, and a photography exhibition. According to Ju, Tai Chi is now practiced by hundreds of millions of people in more than 150 countries and regions. As of now, the Wudang Martial Arts Association has set up 21 international promotion centers, training more than three million overseas practitioners. 