Sichuan pepper becomes major industry in NW China's Gansu - People's Daily Online Nestled in the southeastern part of northwest China's Gansu Province, where Gansu, Sichuan and Shaanxi provinces meet, Wudu district of Longnan city enjoys a mild climate, distinct seasons, and abundant sunlight and water resources. It is one of China's premier regions for cultivating Sichuan pepper and one of its traditional places of origin. "Our peppers are of high quality and sell effortlessly. Many customers actually discovered them through e-commerce platforms," said Wang Kai, chairman of Gansu Hengduo Agricultural Technology Co., Ltd. After years in the e-commerce industry, Wang has focused on bringing his hometown's specialty farm products out of the mountains and onto dining tables across China. Photo shows Sichuan peppers produced in Wudu district, Longnan city, northwest China's Gansu Province. (People's Daily Online/Shao Lan) Looking ahead, he added, "We'll invest more in standardized production and upgrade our packaging and products so that Longnan's Sichuan pepper can reach even more markets." Today, Wudu district leads the nation in five key metrics: Sichuan pepper planting area, output, total value, quality and farmers' income from the crop. The district has become China's largest high-quality Sichuan pepper production base and the country's hub for product research and development, distribution, information exchange, and price formation. Wudu is home to eight Sichuan pepper production bases, each spanning over 10,000 mu (about 666.67 hectares), and 108 bases exceeding 1,000 mu, covering 650 villages in 37 townships, towns and subdistricts. Photo shows Sichuan peppers on display at a Sichuan pepper industry expo hall in Wudu district, Longnan city, northwest China's Gansu Province. (People's Daily Online/Shao Lan) In 2025, Wudu's total Sichuan pepper output reached 34,500 tonnes. The high-quality peppers are sold across China and exported to more than 20 countries and regions, including South Korea, Japan and the U.S. In 2024, a Sichuan pepper industry expo hall opened in Wudu. As China's only exhibition hall dedicated to the Sichuan pepper industry, it showcases the crop's history, cultural heritage, cultivation and processing techniques, and marketing practices. The hall combines exhibitions, education and hands-on experiences to showcase the sector's latest technologies, products and business models, establishing itself as a vital platform for industry exchange and cooperation. Photo shows Sichuan pepper products on display in Wudu district, Longnan city, northwest China's Gansu Province. (People's Daily Online/Shao Lan) To expand its industrial chain, Wudu has developed diverse Sichuan pepper products ranging from pepper oil, pepper sprouts, pepper powder and dried Sichuan pepper to innovative derivatives like pepper-scented candles, perfumes, essential oils, ginger-jujube tea with pepper, olive-pepper oil and pepper soap. 