Chinese FM spokesperson hits back at Philippine president's S.China Sea claims; expert says Manila-Tokyo cooperation to heighten tensions in region - People's Daily Online In response to a question about Philippine President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr's remarks that it is regrettable that incidents continue to occur in the South China Sea and "[the incidents] have put the lives of Philippine personnel and the safety of our vessels and aircraft at risk" at the ongoing ASEAN meetings on Sunday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Guo Jiakun said on Monday that the South China Sea is the shared home of China and ASEAN countries, and its peace and stability must be jointly safeguarded. The root cause of the current tensions lies in the Philippines' deliberate maritime infringements and provocations, Guo said. China will continue to firmly defend its sovereignty and rights in accordance with the law, while remaining willing to properly manage maritime differences with the Philippines through dialogue and consultation, the spokesperson said. China will also work with ASEAN countries to fully and effectively implement the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and advance consultations on a Code of Conduct in the South China Sea to maintain peace and stability in the region, Guo said, noting that relevant countries should strictly abide by the provisions of the declaration, cease acts of infringement and provocation and stop hyping up tensions. Marcos made the claims at the 28th ASEAN-Japan Summit in Kuala Lumpur, which attended by newly elected Japanese Prime Minister Takaichi Sanae. Marcos expressed deep concern over continuing incidents in the region, according to the release by its Presidential Communications Office. On the same day, Marcos and Takaichi also welcomed the new pact on the two nations' growing security cooperation during a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and Related Meetings, according to Philippines News Agency on Monday. The leaders welcomed their countries' agreement in principle on the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement, or ACSA. The pact allows Japan's Self-Defense Forces and the Philippine military to provide each other with supplies, such as food and fuel, according to Japanese outlet NHK. The report by NHK also noted that they agreed to continue working to bolster security assistance. Takaichi's office said both the leaders concurred on continuing close coordination in addressing various international challenges, including the situation in the South China Sea, PNA reported. The backdrop of this accelerated cooperation is strategic leverage, Xiang Haoyu, a distinguished research fellow at the Department for Asia-Pacific Studies of the China Institute of International Studies, told the Global Times. For the Philippines, leveraging Japan's support aims to bolster its confidence in making illegal sovereignty claims in the South China Sea and countering China. By introducing Japan as a partner alongside the US-Philippines alliance, the Philippines can diversify its reliance on a single ally and utilize Japan's technology and equipment to quickly address its military capability gaps, the expert noted. For Japan, the objective is to expand its military cooperation network into the South China Sea, using the Philippines as a springboard and foothold to curb China, Xiang said. From a regional security perspective, the ACSA agreement will heighten tensions in the South China Sea. The Philippines and Japan seek to enhance their security influence in the region through strengthened bilateral cooperation. This sends a confrontational signal, which may prompt countermeasures from relevant parties, further fueling a regional arms race, the expert added. 