What key messages does the communique of fourth plenary session send to the world?: Global Times editorial - People's Daily Online On October 23, the communique of the fourth plenary session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) was released. At the session, the Central Committee gave a positive assessment of China's major development achievements during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-2025), established six guiding principles for economic and social development during the 15th Five-Year Plan period, set major objectives and made 12 major deployments, according to the communique. We must maintain strategic resolve and enhance our confidence of success and focus on managing our own affairs, the communique emphasized. It was also stressed that the whole Party and all Chinese people should be united in a concerted endeavor to fulfill the 15th Five-Year Plan. This 5,000-character communique carries significant weight, offering a clearer blueprint for China's development over the next five years and beyond. There is confidence that China will stay on its established course toward a brighter future. The communique immediately drew attention both at home and abroad. On Chinese social media, news about the document dominated discussions, with multiple related topics going viral. In international public opinion, major media outlets provided detailed, item-by-item coverage of its key content, highlighting the policy continuity and stability reflected in the communique. The Associated Press noted that the communique largely echoed existing policy directions, adding that the full plan won't be known until next March, when it will be approved at the two sessions. The Financial Times quoted analysts as saying, "There's lots of things going on in the world, upheaval, but China is continuing to implement their plan toward socialist modernization." As an action program for the 15th Five-Year Plan period, the communique offers the world a key text for understanding China's development logic and anticipating its future trajectory. From it, the international community can clearly perceive China's guiding philosophy, goals, approaches and development path. The communique embodies the aspiration of more than 1.4 billion Chinese people for a better life; and the people-centered philosophy that underpins China's domestic development also informs its external efforts to build a community with a shared future for humanity. China's credibility - its consistency between words and actions - forms the foundation of public trust in the Party and government at home, and makes China, in the eyes of global investors and partners, one of the most stable and predictable forces in the world. From "ensuring that policies aimed at strengthening agriculture, benefiting farmers, and achieving rural prosperity deliver greater outcomes" to "moving forward with people-centered new urbanization," and from "working harder to ensure and improve public well-being" to "making solid strides toward delivering common prosperity for all," the new Five-Year Plan consistently centers on enhancing the improvement of people's well-being. This development philosophy ensures that the fruits of economic and social progress are shared by the vast majority of the people, effectively avoiding issues such as wealth polarization and social fragmentation commonly seen in Western developed societies. While politics in some countries has become a game for capital and narrow interest groups, China remains committed to advancing the fundamental interests of the overwhelming majority of its people. This commitment has laid a solid foundation for long-term social stability and harmony - When people realize that the nation's development blueprint is closely linked to their own interests, they will come together with tremendous strength and unity to strive forward. Stable growth, stable policies and stable expectations - these are the key messages the communique conveys to the world. In today's global environment, some major powers frequently change their policies, and such "unpredictability" has cast a shadow over world peace and development. In contrast, China's development not only follows a clear direction but is also implemented with strong determination, further instilling the world with "China confidence." Whether it is the top-level design for developing new quality productive forces based on local conditions, the solid advancement of common prosperity through high-quality development, or the systematic plan to accelerate the formation of a new development pattern, the communique reflects the plenary session's far-sighted vision of global trends and its pragmatic, problem-oriented approach. It is both highly targeted and practical - a plan that embodies the spirit of the times while staying closely connected to reality. The world today stands at a crossroads of profound transformation and turbulence, with uncertainty pervading the globe. The China shown in the communique is one that is clear-headed, confident and open to the world. China fully recognizes that its own development is inseparable from the world, and that the world's progress also needs China. The communique emphasizes "promoting high-standard opening-up and create new horizons for mutually beneficial cooperation" and explicitly reaffirms its commitment to "safeguarding the multilateral trading system." This reflects China's consistent policy orientation, carrying greater significance than ever amid the resurgence of protectionist tendencies internationally. It stands as China's solemn commitment as a major power and a resolute response to calls for "decoupling and breaking supply chains" and "small yard and high fence" strategy. China's approach to development is not about "securing its own well-being alone," but about ""seeking the good of the world." The 15th Five-Year Plan will be a carefully designed blueprint for realizing the Chinese people's aspiration for a better life, and is also a compass guiding the country's efforts over the next five years. A developing major country that upholds the people as its highest belief possesses unmatched resilience and endurance in development; a governing party backed by a robust institutional framework and strong implementation capacity delivers promises with unshakable credibility; and a civilization committed to building a community with a shared future for humanity will make ever greater contributions to world peace and development. The development roadmap unveiled in the communique for China's next five years offers the world something truly rare in these turbulent times - certainty. 