China contributes irreplaceable strength and solutions to global space exploration - People's Daily Online Illustration: Liu Rui/GT According to Xinhua News Agency, China's first international standard in the field of manned spaceflight - ISO/NP 14620-5 "Space Systems - Safety Requirements - Part 5: Manned Spacecraft" - has been officially registered as a new project by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Proposed and organized by China's National Technical Committee on Manned Spaceflight Standardization, this marks a historic breakthrough as Chinese standards become one of the global references and guarantees in aerospace safety. This is the first successfully registered international standard in China's manned space sector. It signifies China's transformation in the global space governance system - from a contributor of technological achievements to a formulator of international standards. This achievement not only stems from decades of technological accumulation and engineering strength but also represents the expansion of China's institutional influence, injecting Chinese wisdom into global aerospace safety and development, and demonstrating the responsibility and value of "Chinese standards" on the world stage. The foundation of these "Chinese standards" lies in decades of extensive manned space practice. It embodies China's hard-earned experience across the entire chain of spacecraft design, manufacturing, testing, launching, in-orbit operation and recovery. From Shenzhou-5's first manned flight to the full completion and long-term operation of the Tiangong Space Station, each landmark mission provides solid and indisputable evidence for the scientific rigor, reliability and validity of this proposed standard. Every steady step in China's decades-long space journey has built the confidence and strength that now support the internationalization of "Chinese standards." Historically, manned spaceflight standards have been dominated by Western countries, creating both technical barriers and rule-based monopolies. "From China's perspective, we have explored our own unique path of developing manned spaceflight," said Song Zhongping, a Chinese military affairs expert. This successful registration provides a valuable reference for other countries, especially emerging spacefaring nations. "It is also a vivid manifestation of China's commitment to building a community with a shared future for humanity. It reflects China's responsibility as a major spacefaring power," Song added. Chinese standards have also become benchmarks that extend beyond aerospace, particularly in the infrastructure, playing an increasingly important role in global development. For instance, China's standards for high-speed railways, bridges, and ports have spread worldwide through the Belt and Road Initiative, becoming synonymous with quality and reliability. Whether for spacecraft in the sky or infrastructure on the ground, the rise of Chinese standards is underpinned by the same forces: strong engineering capability, rigorous quality management, and a forward-looking spirit of innovation. During the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-2025), China led the formation of 1,079 international standards and advanced mutual recognition for over 500 standards with other countries. Chinese standards have been applied in eight railway cooperation projects, including the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan Railway, the China-Laos Railway and the Jakarta-Bandung High Speed Railway in Indonesia, showcasing their expanding influence across technological fields. Why are Chinese standards increasingly recognized by the international community? According to Song, "Because Chinese standards are built on real, large-scale practice. Whether in massive infrastructure construction or in our aerospace programs, each standard is grounded in implementation and experience. We are willing to share these lessons with the world, helping other countries avoid detours and achieve mutual benefit. That is what we call 'Chinese wisdom' and 'Chinese responsibility.'" These examples align closely with the establishment of the international manned spaceflight standard, revealing the deeper logic behind the rise of "Chinese standards": They are supported by China's powerful engineering capacity, meticulous quality systems, and relentless innovation. Whether in high-speed trains racing across land, bridges spanning vast rivers, or spacecraft exploring the universe, each stands as a living advertisement for the excellence of Chinese standards. This is just the beginning. China will continue, with an open and cooperative attitude, to transform more of its tested technologies and management experience into public goods that are widely accepted by the international community. From gazing at the stars to defining the safety rules of space navigation, China is taking firm steps to contribute its irreplaceable strength and vision to the peaceful use of outer space and to a safer, more prosperous future for humanity. 