Scenery of Wuzhishan City in south China's Hainan - People's Daily Online An aerial drone photo shows the scenery of Wuzhishan City in south China's Hainan Province, June 7, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) An aerial drone photo shows the scenery of Wuzhishan City in south China's Hainan Province, June 6, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) Dancers perform dance of Li ethnic group for tourists in Maona Village, Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, Feb. 14, 2024. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) A teacher (C) teaches the techniques of Li brocade at Hainan Minzu Technical School in Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, June 10, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) An inheritor of Li rattan weaving crafts from Wuzhishan City demonstrates rattan basket making in Sanya, south China's Hainan Province, June 11, 2022. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) An aerial drone photo shows terraces fields in Maoyang Township, Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, Jan. 18, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) This photo taken on June 7, 2025 shows a street view in Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) An aerial drone photo shows Chubao Village, a well-preserved Li village, in Maoyang Township, Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, May 30, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) Residents display traditional Li costumes during a cultural event in Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, Sept. 16, 2023. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) Citizens and tourists visit a weekend fair in Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, June 7, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) A child from Wuzhishan City demonstrates the techniques of Li brocade in Sanya, south China's Hainan Province, June 11, 2022. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) An aerial drone photo shows workers picking tea leaves at a tea garden on the border between Baoting Li and Miao Autonomous County and Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, June 8, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) An aerial drone photo shows citizens and tourists visiting a park in Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, June 7, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) A tourist visits a scenic area at the Wuzhishan section of the Hainan Tropical Rainforest National Park in south China's Hainan Province, May 30, 2025. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) Tourists experience tea-picking at a tea garden in Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, Jan 11, 2024. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) An aerial drone photo shows the scenery at Maona Village in Wuzhishan City, south China's Hainan Province, Feb. 14, 2024. Due to eco-friendly and sustainable development, Wuzhishan City is committed to developing tourism industry based on its rainforest resources, ethnic customs and tea culture and has attracted tourists with its untouched natural beauty. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng) 