Commentary: Lai's secessionist plot poses greatest threat to peace across Taiwan Strait - People's Daily Online BEIJING, Oct. 10 (Xinhua) -- In a Friday speech, Taiwan regional leader Lai Ching-te obstinately adhered to his "Taiwan independence" stance and played up the so-called mainland threats. In a brazen maneuver of blame-shifting, Lai claims that it is the mainland that should "stop changing the status quo of the Taiwan Strait through force and coercion." But the fact is that it is precisely Lai's Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) authorities who are seeking to alter the status quo of the Taiwan Strait -- namely, that there is only one China in the world and Taiwan is an inalienable part of it. It is Lai's secessionist provocations that pose grave threats to peace across the Strait. In his speech, Lai said Taiwan's defense budget will be raised to more than 3 percent of the island's GDP next year, and to 5 percent of GDP by 2030. This is a policy statement that once again exposes his ignorance of mainstream public opinion on the island and his attempts to push forward secessionist schemes with force. By willingly acting as a cash cow for external forces, the DPP authorities have squandered taxpayers' hard-earned money on purchasing weapons, when such money could have been used to improve people's lives and develop the economy. In fact, more and more people in Taiwan have realized that they must not become the sacrifices of "Taiwan independence" and that "Taiwan independence" is a dead end. This year marks the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, as well as the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration to China. Yet in his speech, Lai referred to the V-Day anniversary as the anniversary of the "end of war," echoing the distorted historical perspective in the shoes of the Japanese aggressors. As a matter of fact, China's sovereignty over Taiwan is reaffirmed in a host of documents with international legal effect, including the 1943 Cairo Declaration, the 1945 Potsdam Proclamation and the 1945 Japanese Instrument of Surrender. Taiwan's restoration to China constituted an integral part of the outcomes of the World War II victory and the post-war international order. The legitimacy, validity, and authority of the United Nations General Assembly's (UNGA) Resolution 2758 are indisputable. However, in his speech, Lai once again distorted the UNGA Resolution 2758 and the historical documents of World War II. Such attempts to challenge the post-war international order are doomed to failure. If Lai sincerely advocates for peace, he should abandon the secessionist stance aimed at "Taiwan independence," uphold the 1992 Consensus, which embodies the one-China principle, and acknowledge Taiwan's restoration to China. The "Taiwan independence" agenda, which defies public opinion and historical trend, will lead nowhere. 