Young people trace roots by sharing stories - People's Daily Online Lin Yimin (left), son of Lin Cheng-heng, who fought against Japanese occupation, hugs a Taiwan youth, who studied on the Chinese mainland, at a commemorative event held in Beijing on Tuesday to mark the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration to China. WANG JING/CHINA DAILY Young people from Taiwan called for a correct understanding of history and a stronger sense of national identity as they reflected on the shared roots of people living across the Taiwan Strait while revisiting the history of Taiwan's restoration to the motherland. At a commemorative event held at the Taiwan Guild Hall in Beijing on Tuesday to mark the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration to China, four youth representatives from Taiwan shared their reflections on this historical period. The event was jointly organized by the All-China Federation of Taiwan Compatriots, China Daily's national news channel, the Beijing Taiwan Compatriots Association, and the association for relatives of patriots in Taiwan who fought against Japanese occupation. Lo Chih-ying, 23, from Changhua county in Taiwan, said: "Commemorating Taiwan's recovery is not only about marking the historic restoration, but also about reaffirming the Chinese nation's roots." Lo recounted her family history, which goes back over 300 years and helped her trace her roots to Fujian province on the mainland. "Our ancestors crossed the Strait and settled in Taiwan, where their descendants have since taken root and flourished," she said. Taiwan was ceded to Japan under the Treaty of Shimonoseki in 1895, following the First Sino-Japanese War. The island remained under Japanese occupation until 1945. This historical period was reviewed by Lu Ying-chu, 21, from Taipei, who is now a student at Minzu University of China in Beijing. "This treaty forcibly tore Taiwan away from its motherland, bringing shame to the nation and heartbreak to its people," Lu said. She shared that her great-grandfather, who lived through much of the Japanese occupation of Taiwan, remained steadfast and never yielded to the Japanese authority. "Studying this history has made me realize the mission our generation carries — promoting peace and unity," Lu said, emphasizing that the shared national memory and its lessons should never be forgotten. Lin Ching-mao, 26, from Changhua, who is currently studying at Peking University, said: "The commemoration of Taiwan's recovery also honors the unyielding resistance of the Taiwan people against Japanese occupation." "If those soldiers who bled and sacrificed (their lives) during the Chinese People's War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression (1931-45) saw their descendants denying that the Taiwan people are Chinese, what would they think?" Lin said, criticizing recent moves by "Taiwan independence" separatists to erase Chinese elements in Taiwan. He described the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration to the motherland as an opportunity to promote a correct understanding of Taiwan's history and its contemporary significance. Lin Kuan-ting, from Taipei, noted that during the war of resistance, patriotic compatriots from Taiwan believed that "to save Taiwan, one must first save the motherland". "Today's young people from Taiwan also share the belief that 'once the motherland becomes strong, the Taiwan question will naturally be resolved'," he said, adding that Taiwan's patriotic compatriots see hope in the increasing strength of the motherland. All four young people also served as narrators in Stories across the Strait, a 12-episode documentary produced by China Daily that explores the historical origins of the Taiwan question. They said that participating in the filming deepened their understanding of Taiwan's history. Li Zhenguang, dean of the Institute of Taiwan Studies at Beijing Union University, emphasized the importance of remembering this part of history. "Mainland youth have not forgotten, and neither have the young people from Taiwan represented by these four," Li said. "Young people who remember history are the hope of the Chinese nation." Li Ziyiand Dong Senhecontributed to this story. 