Commemorations held to pay tribute to CPV heroes in NE China - People's Daily Online A flower baskets presenting ceremony is held at the Chinese People's Volunteers (CPV) martyrs' cemetery in Shenyang, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the CPV's entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) A flower baskets presenting ceremony is held at the Chinese People's Volunteers (CPV) martyrs' cemetery in Shenyang, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the CPV's entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) Students sing the national anthem during a flower baskets presenting ceremony at the memorial tower in the Memorial Hall of the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea in Dandong, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Chinese People's Volunteers' (CPV) entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Wu Qinghao) Chinese People's Volunteers (CPV) veterans observe a moment of silence during a flower baskets presenting ceremony at the CPV martyrs' cemetery in Shenyang, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the CPV's entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) Chinese People's Volunteers (CPV) veterans prepare to present flowers to martyrs of the CPV at the CPV martyrs' cemetery in Shenyang, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the CPV's entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) Students pay tribute to martyrs of the Chinese People's Volunteers (CPV) at the CPV martyrs' cemetery in Shenyang, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the CPV's entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) Chinese People's Volunteers (CPV) veterans present flowers to martyrs of the CPV at the CPV martyrs' cemetery in Shenyang, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the CPV's entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) A Chinese People's Volunteers (CPV) veteran presents flowers to martyrs of the CPV at the CPV martyrs' cemetery in Shenyang, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the CPV's entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) A flower baskets presenting ceremony is held at the memorial tower in the Memorial Hall of the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea in Dandong, northeast China's Liaoning Province, Oct. 25, 2025. Liaoning Province on Saturday held flower baskets presenting ceremonies in Shenyang and Dandong to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Chinese People's Volunteers' (CPV) entering the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to fight in the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea. (Xinhua/Wu Qinghao) 