Commentary: China, U.S. should strive for win-win outcome through equal dialogue - People's Daily Online BEIJING, Sept. 13 (Xinhua) -- As agreed by China and the United States, Chinese Vice Premier He Lifeng will go to Spain to engage in talks with the U.S. side. The two parties will discuss economic and trade issues such as the U.S. unilateral tariff measures, the abuse of export controls and TikTok. In a world rocked by economic uncertainties, the outcome of these discussions carries implications far beyond the two countries. Efforts to reach consensus and secure a win-win outcome through equal dialogue not only serve their common interests but also resonate with the expectations of the international community. Since May, the two sides have held three rounds of economic and trade talks in Geneva, London and Stockholm. On June 5, the two heads of state spoke on the phone, providing strategic guidance for the two countries to steer the relationship toward the right direction. It is through continuous communication that the two sides have gradually deepened their understanding of each other's concerns, reinforcing the momentum to reduce differences and enhance consensus. Facts have repeatedly proven that equal dialogue is the best way to resolve problems and eliminate confrontation. The inclusion of TikTok in the discussions in Spain once again demonstrates their continued commitment to resolving differences through dialogue. Achieving positive outcomes from the talks requires joint efforts from both sides. However, the U.S. side has recently continued to pursue unilateral and bullying practices, including imposing sanctions on Chinese companies even right before the talks. Such actions are detrimental to reaching mutually beneficial results through equal dialogue. On TikTok, China's position is clear and consistent: The Chinese government attaches great importance to data privacy and security and has never requested, nor will it request, any enterprise or individual to collect or provide data located abroad to the Chinese government in violation of local laws. China is firmly committed to safeguarding the legitimate rights and interests of its enterprises and will handle the TikTok issue in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. China urges the United States to work with China, resolve respective concerns through dialogue based on mutual respect and equal consultation, and find solutions that ensure an open, fair, just and non-discriminatory business environment for Chinese companies, including TikTok, to continue operations in the United States. This will promote the stable, healthy and sustainable development of China-U.S. economic and trade relations. At the heart of China-U.S. economic relations lies mutual benefit and win-win cooperation. Complementary strengths and shared interests have driven cooperation between businesses and people on both sides. Maintaining the momentum of dialogue and expanding the scope of collaboration will help promote a healthy and stable development of China-U.S. economic and trade relations and benefit both countries and the world. The upcoming talks represent not only an in-depth dialogue between China and the United States but also a crucial interaction that concerns global confidence and stability. The world looks forward to both sides sustaining the momentum of dialogue, upholding the principle of equality and mutual benefit, and taking concrete actions to resolve issues, so as to achieve win-win outcomes, and strengthen stability for their economies and the global economy as a whole. 