Stay confident and forge ahead with determination - People's Daily Online China's GDP grew 5.2 percent year on year in the first three quarters of this year, with the growth rate higher than both the full year of last year and the same period last year. Production, sales, and imports and exports all registered steady growth. The newly released third-quarter report on the Chinese economy highlights many positive factors, boosting confidence as the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025) nears conclusion. An aerial drone photo shows a cargo ship, assisted by tugboats, berthing at a container terminal of Qingdao Port in east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 20, 2025. China's gross domestic product (GDP) grew 5.2 percent year on year in the first three quarters of 2025, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed. (Photo by Yu Fangping/Xinhua) The moderation in growth momentum during the third quarter should be viewed rationally. On the one hand, the 4.8 percent growth rate for the third quarter remains higher than that of most major economies, and the sheer size of China's economy is impressively weighty. On the other hand, structural trends indicate ongoing progress: the industrial landscape is being upgraded and optimized, consumer demand is being steadily unleashed, foreign investment and trade are becoming more stable and higher in quality, and some leading and high-frequency indicators are pointing to a warming economy. All these show that China's economy remains on a stable and improving trajectory overall. The robust performance of China's economy in the first three quarters has laid a solid foundation for achieving this year's development goals. However, we must not lose sight of multiple external uncertainties and the fact that domestic recovery still requires stronger consolidation. Going forward, all regions and departments must resolutely implement the decisions and plans of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China. They must take counter-cyclical adjustments, sustain efforts to expand domestic demand and strengthen domestic economic circulation, adopt multiple measures to foster a world-class industrial ecosystem, and promote high-quality development through more proactive and effective actions. By staying confident, forging ahead with determination, and steadfastly focusing on our own development, we will surely bring the 14th Five-Year Plan to a successful conclusion and sustain economic growth even in the face of difficulties and challenges. 