West artificial island of Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link starts trial operation for tourism in China's Guangdong - People's Daily Online A man takes photos of the Shenzhong Bridge from a viewing platform on the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 25, 2025. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) People take photos of the Shenzhong Bridge from a viewing platform on the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 25, 2025. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) A man poses for a photo on the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 25, 2025. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) This photo taken on Oct. 25, 2025 shows a view of the Shenzhong Bridge and the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) People arrive at the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 25, 2025. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) A kid visits a science popularization base about the cross-sea passages of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA) on the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 25, 2025. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) People visit a science popularization base about the cross-sea passages of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA) on the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 25, 2025. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) Tourists and journalists visit a science popularization base about the cross-sea passages of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA) on the west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link in south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 25, 2025. The west artificial island of the Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link started trial operation for tourism on Saturday. The Shenzhen-Zhongshan Link, spanning approximately 24 kilometers, opened to traffic on June 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) 