German ceramic artist draws inspiration in China's "porcelain capital" - People's Daily Online Christiane Toewe checks a ceramic work in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe, a German ceramic artist, joined a residency program in the "porcelain capital" of Jingdezhen for the third time. During her stay, she shared her techniques and ideas with local and international artists, and also drew inspiration from the city with a ceramic history spanning more than 2,000 years. "In Jingdezhen, artists are able to acquire the best materials and work with skilled kiln masters," Toewe said. "The city is like a treasure box where you can find everything you want." Toewe's experience living and working in Jingdezhen made her feel at home. Before the end of her stay, her husband also came to Jingdezhen, helping with her work and enjoying the city's cultural atmosphere. Toewe said that although Jingdezhen was far from her home country, she felt a sense of belonging as everyone there had a shared love for ceramics. Christiane Toewe (L) and her husband transfer ceramic works in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe opens a kiln door to check the condition of ceramic works in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe (L) and her husband transfer ceramic works in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe (R) and her husband visit Taoxichuan Ceramic Art Avenue in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe (C) and her husband (R) communicate with a Chinese artist while visiting a market at Taoxichuan Ceramic Art Avenue in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe (2nd L) communicates with a foreign artist while visiting a market at Taoxichuan Ceramic Art Avenue in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe selects tools for ceramics at a store in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe poses for photos at Taoxichuan Ceramic Art Avenue in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) Christiane Toewe (R) selects tools for ceramics at a store in Jingdezhen City, east China's Jiangxi Province, Oct. 19, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi) 