Musician couple promote cultural exchanges between China, Vietnam - People's Daily Online Dong Quang Vinh and his wife Mo Shuangshuang receive an interview with Xinhua at home in Hanoi, Vietnam, March 28, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhu Wei) HANOI, April 13 (Xinhua) -- Born into a Vietnamese family of musicians, Dong Quang Vinh was used to immersing himself in Chinese folk music in his childhood as his father often bought cassette tapes of Chinese music for him as gifts, thus developing an interest in China. During his study at China's Shanghai Conservatory of Music, Vinh met Chinese pianist Mo Shuangshuang in 2006, who later married him and moved to live in Vietnam with him. To better promote music culture between the two countries, the couple found an orchestra in Hanoi and brought Vietnamese and Chinese folk music on stage many times. They also established a chorus composed mainly of internationals living in Vietnam to deepen people-to-people exchange through music. The couple now travel between China and Vietnam as part of their efforts to enhance understanding between the two peoples. To them, the most beautiful melodies come from the amity between the two neighboring countries. Dong Quang Vinh and his wife Mo Shuangshuang rehearse with a chorus they found in Hanoi, Vietnam, March 24, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhu Wei) Dong Quang Vinh (R, front) instructs an orchestra he found with his wife Mo Shuangshuang during a rehearsal in Hanoi, Vietnam, March 30, 2025. (Xinhua/Hu Jiali) Dong Quang Vinh and his wife Mo Shuangshuang give a lesson to members of an orchestra they found in Hanoi, Vietnam, March 28, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhu Wei) Dong Quang Vinh (L) and his wife Mo Shuangshuang (R) rehearse with an orchestra they found in Hanoi, Vietnam, March 30, 2025. (Xinhua/Hu Jiali) Dong Quang Vinh and his wife Mo Shuangshuang perform at home in Hanoi, Vietnam, March 28, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhu Wei) Dong Quang Vinh (R, front) and his wife Mo Shuangshuang (L, back) rehearse with a chorus they found in Hanoi, Vietnam, March 24, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhu Wei) 