Chinese naval hospital ship provides medical services in Tonga - People's Daily Online The Chinese Navy hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrives at Nuku'alofa Port in Tonga, Oct. 13, 2025. The Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrived at Nuku'alofa Port, Tonga, on Monday, starting a seven-day visit featuring medical services and cultural activities during its Mission Harmony 2025. (Photo by Wang Junchuan/Xinhua) SUVA, Oct. 13 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrived at Nuku'alofa Port, Tonga, on Monday, starting a seven-day visit featuring medical services and cultural activities during its Mission Harmony 2025. This is the fourth visit to Tonga by a Chinese naval hospital ship on Mission Harmony. Tonga's acting Prime Minister Taniela Fusimalohi, along with military and political dignitaries, the Chinese ambassador to Tonga, local residents, representatives of overseas Chinese and Chinese enterprises, came to the pier to greet the vessel. During its visit to Tonga, the Silk Road Ark will provide medical services on the ship, conduct academic exchanges on war injury rescue with the Tongan Navy, hold medical forums with Tongan hospitals, dispatch an onboard helicopter and multiple medical teams for clinic programs in local communities and on outer islands, and send teams to local schools for cultural exchange. The navies of the two countries will also hold joint exercises in the waters off the port. In February 2022, a Chinese flotilla comprising two naval ships arrived in Tonga to deliver more than 1,400 tons of disaster relief supplies after the South Pacific island nation was devastated by a massive volcanic eruption and ensuing tsunami. The hospital ship Peace Ark visited Tonga in 2014, 2018, and 2023, providing over 15,000 medical services to the local residents. The Chinese Navy hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrives at Nuku'alofa Port in Tonga, Oct. 13, 2025. The Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrived at Nuku'alofa Port, Tonga, on Monday, starting a seven-day visit featuring medical services and cultural activities during its Mission Harmony 2025. (Photo by Cui Xiaoyang/Xinhua) This photo taken on Oct. 13, 2025 shows the welcome ceremony for the Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, at Nuku'alofa Port in Tonga. The Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrived at Nuku'alofa Port, Tonga, on Monday, starting a seven-day visit featuring medical services and cultural activities during its Mission Harmony 2025. (Photo by Wang Junchuan/Xinhua) The Chinese Navy hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrives at Nuku'alofa Port in Tonga, Oct. 13, 2025. The Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrived at Nuku'alofa Port, Tonga, on Monday, starting a seven-day visit featuring medical services and cultural activities during its Mission Harmony 2025. (Photo by Cui Xiaoyang/Xinhua) People perform lion dance at the welcome ceremony for the Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, at Nuku'alofa Port in Tonga, Oct. 13, 2025. The Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrived at Nuku'alofa Port, Tonga, on Monday, starting a seven-day visit featuring medical services and cultural activities during its Mission Harmony 2025. (Photo by Cui Xiaoyang/Xinhua) The Chinese Navy hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrives at Nuku'alofa Port in Tonga, Oct. 13, 2025. The Chinese naval hospital ship, Silk Road Ark, arrived at Nuku'alofa Port, Tonga, on Monday, starting a seven-day visit featuring medical services and cultural activities during its Mission Harmony 2025. (Photo by Cui Xiaoyang/Xinhua) 