China holds massive parade to mark 80th anniversary of WWII victory - People's Daily Online Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi) BEIJING, Sept. 3 (Xinhua) -- China held a massive military parade in central Beijing on Wednesday to mark the 80th anniversary of its victory in World War II, pledging the country's commitment to peaceful development in a world still fraught with turbulence and uncertainties. Towering structures shaped like the Great Wall stood in Tian'anmen Square, symbolizing the Chinese nation's courage and solidarity in resisting foreign aggression. President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, oversaw the parade and reviewed the troops. Standing beside Xi on Tian'anmen Rostrum were Russian President Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un, the top leader of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, along with more than 20 other foreign leaders. Representatives of people who had supported China's WWII fight, or their family members -- from countries such as Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, and Canada -- were invited to the event. This was the second time since 2015 that China has held a military parade to commemorate the hard-won victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. Helicopters flew over Tian'anmen Square carrying banners that read "Justice Prevails," "Peace Prevails," and "The People Prevail." The troops marched in tight, powerful formations, their faces lit with confidence and pride. Columns of new tanks, artillery and other military equipment rumbled through the square. Xi delivered a speech before the parade. Highlighting the significance of the victory 80 years ago, Xi said it marks China's first complete victory against foreign aggression in modern times. Xi noted that the Chinese people made a major contribution to the salvation of human civilization and the defense of world peace with immense sacrifice in the war. He called on nations to "eliminate the root cause of war and prevent historical tragedies from recurring." Japan officially surrendered on Sept. 2, 1945, by signing the Instrument of Surrender. China designated Sept. 3 as Victory Day. An 80-banner formation honoring heroic military units from the war marched past Tian'anmen Square, highlighting China's position as the first country to rise against fascist aggression with the longest-lasting resistance that began in 1931. The country tied down and struck over half of Japan's overseas forces, at the cost of 35 million military and civilian casualties -- accounting for around one-third of all WWII casualties worldwide. More than 10,000 military personnel, along with over 100 aircraft and hundreds of ground armaments, were arranged into formations according to a wartime command system. The People's Liberation Army's (PLA) new system of services and arms -- the result of military reforms under Xi's leadership -- was put on display for the first time. The advanced armaments put on display included unmanned intelligence and counter-unmanned equipment, hypersonic missiles, directed-energy weapons, electronic jamming systems, and strategic weaponry capable of global strikes. In his speech, Xi demanded that the PLA provide strategic support for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. He reiterated China's commitment to peaceful development. "Humanity is again faced with a choice of peace or war, dialogue or confrontation, and win-win outcomes or zero-sum games," he said. Chinese soldiers who have participated in UN peacekeeping operations marched past Tian'anmen Square, marking their first appearance in a V-Day parade. "We have the capability to defend the peace forged with the blood of our forefathers," said Shao Xiaoguang, a member of the reviewed troops who previously served on a peacekeeping mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This was also the first military parade since Xi led China to embark on "a new journey to pursue Chinese modernization on all fronts." The country has laid out a roadmap to basically achieve modernization by 2035. "Eighty years ago, we were revived. Eighty years later, we are thriving with even greater vitality," said Lyu Shouye, a spectator at the event and a graduate student studying AI. "Now our country has reached a stage where we need to undertake greater responsibilities," he said. Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Yan Yan) The guard of honor of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Wang Jianhua) BEIJING, Sept. 3 (Xinhua) -- China held a massive military parade in central Beijing on Wednesday to mark the 80th anniversary of its victory in World War II, pledging the country's commitment to peaceful development in a world still fraught with turbulence and uncertainties. Towering structures shaped like the Great Wall stood in Tian'anmen Square, symbolizing the Chinese nation's courage and solidarity in resisting foreign aggression. President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, oversaw the parade and reviewed the troops. Standing beside Xi on Tian'anmen Rostrum were Russian President Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un, the top leader of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, along with more than 20 other foreign leaders. Representatives of people who had supported China's WWII fight, or their family members -- from countries such as Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, and Canada -- were invited to the event. This was the second time since 2015 that China has held a military parade to commemorate the hard-won victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. Helicopters flew over Tian'anmen Square carrying banners that read "Justice Prevails," "Peace Prevails," and "The People Prevail." The troops marched in tight, powerful formations, their faces lit with confidence and pride. Columns of new tanks, artillery and other military equipment rumbled through the square. Xi delivered a speech before the parade. Highlighting the significance of the victory 80 years ago, Xi said it marks China's first complete victory against foreign aggression in modern times. Xi noted that the Chinese people made a major contribution to the salvation of human civilization and the defense of world peace with immense sacrifice in the war. He called on nations to "eliminate the root cause of war and prevent historical tragedies from recurring." Japan officially surrendered on Sept. 2, 1945, by signing the Instrument of Surrender. China designated Sept. 3 as Victory Day. An 80-banner formation honoring heroic military units from the war marched past Tian'anmen Square, highlighting China's position as the first country to rise against fascist aggression with the longest-lasting resistance that began in 1931. The country tied down and struck over half of Japan's overseas forces, at the cost of 35 million military and civilian casualties -- accounting for around one-third of all WWII casualties worldwide. More than 10,000 military personnel, along with over 100 aircraft and hundreds of ground armaments, were arranged into formations according to a wartime command system. The People's Liberation Army's (PLA) new system of services and arms -- the result of military reforms under Xi's leadership -- was put on display for the first time. The advanced armaments put on display included unmanned intelligence and counter-unmanned equipment, hypersonic missiles, directed-energy weapons, electronic jamming systems, and strategic weaponry capable of global strikes. In his speech, Xi demanded that the PLA provide strategic support for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. He reiterated China's commitment to peaceful development. "Humanity is again faced with a choice of peace or war, dialogue or confrontation, and win-win outcomes or zero-sum games," he said. Chinese soldiers who have participated in UN peacekeeping operations marched past Tian'anmen Square, marking their first appearance in a V-Day parade. "We have the capability to defend the peace forged with the blood of our forefathers," said Shao Xiaoguang, a member of the reviewed troops who previously served on a peacekeeping mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This was also the first military parade since Xi led China to embark on "a new journey to pursue Chinese modernization on all fronts." The country has laid out a roadmap to basically achieve modernization by 2035. "Eighty years ago, we were revived. Eighty years later, we are thriving with even greater vitality," said Lyu Shouye, a spectator at the event and a graduate student studying AI. "Now our country has reached a stage where we need to undertake greater responsibilities," he said. The People's Liberation Army (PLA) Guards of Honor formation attends a parade during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Xin Yuewei) Honor guards stand in formation during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Wei Peiquan) Chinese UN peacekeepers march through Tian'anmen Square during a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Liu Dawei) The flag-guarding air echelon takes part in a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Na Yuqi) Armament formations attend a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Liu Xu) A flag-guarding echelon flies over Tian'anmen Square during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Xia Yifang) The formation of the Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy marches through Tian'anmen Square during a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Chen Bin) Honor guards stand in formation during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Fei Maohua) The People's Liberation Army (PLA) Guards of Honor formation attends a parade during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Wu Gang) Helicopters form a huge numerical shape of 80 while flying over Tian'anmen Square during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)pagebreak Troops make preparations before a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Chen Bin) Soldiers escort the Chinese national flag for a flag-raising ceremony during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Dawei) Soldiers fire gun salute during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Mu Yu) Members of the joint military band of the Chinese People's Liberation Army make preparations in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang) Parade guards step in place before a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Wei Peiquan) Troops make preparations before a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Li Gang) Troops make preparations before a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Li Gang) Troops make preparations before a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Li Gang) The nuclear missile formation attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng) This photo taken on Sept. 3, 2025 shows the preparations for a gun salute ceremony in Beijing, capital of China. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Jiang Wenyao) Members of the joint military band of the Chinese People's Liberation Army make preparations for a grand gathering in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Zhang Yuwei) Troops make preparations before a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. A grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, will be held on Sept. 3 at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing. (Xinhua/Li Gang)pagebreak Parade guards step in place during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Chan) Parade guards step in place during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, which includes a military parade, in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Li Ming) A national flag-raising ceremony is held at Tian'anmen Square during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Wu Gang) Honor guards escort the Chinese national flag from the Monument to the People's Heroes to the flagpole during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Fei Maohua) Honor guards escort the Chinese national flag during a grand gathering to mark the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Fei Maohua) Soldiers escort the Chinese national flag for a flag-raising ceremony during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Chen Yehua) Soldiers fire gun salute during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Mu Yu) A grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War is held in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Li Xiang) A grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War is held in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Bei He)pagebreak The ground assault formation attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng) Hero units' banner formation marches through Tian'anmen Square during a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei) Hero units' banner formation marches through Tian'anmen Square during a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Pan Yulong) An air echelon attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu) The hero units' banner formation attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Zhang Cheng) The flag-guarding air echelon takes part in a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Lu Ye) Balloons and pigeons are released into the sky over Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei)pagebreak The anti-ship missile formation gets prepared for a parade during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) The ground assault formation marches through Tian'anmen Square during a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Liu Dawei) (Xinhua/Li Ga) The airborne assault formation marches through Tian'anmen Square during a military parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Liu Dawei) The sea-based unmanned warfare formation attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng) The ground assault formation attends a parade during a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. (Xinhua/Yang Guanyu) The airborne unmanned warfare formation attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng) The sea-based unmanned warfare formation attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng) The long-range artillery formation attends a parade in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2025. China on Wednesday held a grand gathering to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng) 