More joint action needed to promote women's development worldwide - People's Daily Online This photo taken on Oct. 13, 2025 shows a scene at the closing ceremony of the Global Leaders' Meeting on Women, in Beijing, capital of China. The Global Leaders' Meeting on Women concluded in Beijing on Monday afternoon. (Xinhua/Zhang Yuwei) Looking back on history, the world has undergone an extraordinary journey to achieve gender equality, strengthening humanity along the way. BEIJING, Oct. 15 (Xinhua) -- The recently-concluded Global Leaders' Meeting on Women, held in Beijing, has provided a valuable opportunity for the international community to take more concrete measures to bolster the development of women. As Chinese President Xi Jinping has underscored, "women play an important role in creating, promoting and carrying forward human civilization." Therefore, the international community has a shared responsibility to advance the cause of women. Looking back on history, the world has undergone an extraordinary journey to achieve gender equality, strengthening humanity along the way. Thirty years after the Fourth World Conference on Women was held in the Chinese capital in 1995, which adopted the landmark Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, equality between men and women has become a universal consensus within the international community. Nearly 1,600 laws on women's rights and interests have been enacted by more than 190 countries, and an increasing number of countries have developed national action plans to enhance women's well-being. Progress has been achieved in women's empowerment. In the eyes of Gertrude Mongella, secretary-general of the Fourth World Conference on Women, "Beijing gave us the blueprint." Still, more must be done. Statistics show that globally, over 600 million women and girls remain mired in war and conflict, and around 10 percent of women and girls are trapped in extreme poverty. At the same time, deep-rooted problems such as violence and discrimination persist, the gender digital divide is widening, and achieving gender equality remains a challenging goal. For China, women's advancement has always been an integral part of the country's modernization endeavors. From bringing moderate prosperity to 690 million women to reducing the maternal mortality ratio by nearly 80 percent since 1995, China has made remarkable achievements in advancing the wellbeing of women. Furthermore, China has actively promoted opportunities and support to enhance women's rights and wellbeing globally. At the just-concluded meeting, China announced several new initiatives, including the launch of a Global Center for Women's Capacity Building. Today, the international community must continue the spirit of the Beijing World Conference on Women, foster a shared future for humanity, and work together to build a better future for all. 