Volunteer team in NE China dedicated to protecting wildlife in Songhua River basin - People's Daily Online Volunteers rescue a bird trapped in illegal bird-capturing nets in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 19, 2025. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) Bird-catching cages discovered by volunteers are pictured in Hulan District, Harbin City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 25, 2020. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) A volunteer removes bird nets entangled on a bird in Harbin City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Nov. 2, 2019. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) Volunteers assist a law enforcement officer in documenting evidence of illegal captured birds in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 27, 2024. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) Volunteer Guan Shaoxian releases an illegally captured bird in Hulan District, Harbin City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Nov. 2, 2019. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) Volunteers remove bird-catching cages and traps on trees in the wild in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 19, 2025. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) A volunteer releases illegally captured birds in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Nov. 4, 2023. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) Volunteers conduct a campaign to promote bird protection in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 25, 2020. Composed of more than 60 members, a Harbin wildlife conservation volunteer team has long been dedicated to ecological protection in the Songhua River basin. Over the past seven years, the team has patrolled approximately 30,000 kilometers and reported nearly 100 clues on illegal poaching to relevant authorities. (Photo by Zhang Shu/Xinhua) 