Training course on poverty alleviation through Juncao technology for women in developing countries held in China's Fuzhou - People's Daily Online Marwa Elgolab, research supervisor of the Agricultural Research Center of Egypt, speaks at the opening ceremony of the training course on poverty alleviation through Juncao technology for women in developing countries in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Oct. 21, 2025. More than 20 trainees from countries including South Africa, Egypt and Rwanda participate in the training course, which will last until Nov. 19. Originally developed and used for mushroom farming in China, Juncao is a hybrid grass and a valuable multifunctional agricultural resource. The innovation, invented by Lin Zhanxi from China's Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University in the 1980s, has benefited over 100 countries. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan) Trainees attend the opening ceremony of the training course on poverty alleviation through Juncao technology for women in developing countries in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Oct. 21, 2025. More than 20 trainees from countries including South Africa, Egypt and Rwanda participate in the training course, which will last until Nov. 19. Originally developed and used for mushroom farming in China, Juncao is a hybrid grass and a valuable multifunctional agricultural resource. The innovation, invented by Lin Zhanxi from China's Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University in the 1980s, has benefited over 100 countries. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan) Lin Zhanxi, a professor of Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, speaks at the opening ceremony of the training course on poverty alleviation through Juncao technology for women in developing countries in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Oct. 21, 2025. More than 20 trainees from countries including South Africa, Egypt and Rwanda participate in the training course, which will last until Nov. 19. Originally developed and used for mushroom farming in China, Juncao is a hybrid grass and a valuable multifunctional agricultural resource. The innovation, invented by Lin Zhanxi in the 1980s, has benefited over 100 countries. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan) 