Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum, bathed in golden autumn hues, attracts tourists - People's Daily Online Tourists take photos at the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 26, 2025. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) Tourists take photos at the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 26, 2025. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2025 shows pagodas and ginkgo trees at the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2025 shows pagodas and ginkgo trees at the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) Tourists visit the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 26, 2025. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2025 shows pagodas and ginkgo trees at the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) Tourists visit the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 26, 2025. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) Tourists take photos at the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 26, 2025. At this time when autumn enters into winter, the Beijing Stone Carving Art Museum is adorned with yellowing ginkgo leaves, attracting numerous visitors. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao) 