Peace in Strait endangered by separatist rhetoric - People's Daily Online Experts and Chinese mainland officials have slammed Taiwan leader Lai Ching-te's speech, warning that his "pro-independence" rhetoric and actions endanger peace in the Taiwan Strait and could have dire consequences for Taiwan society. Lai Ching-te delivered the speech on Friday, which, according to experts and mainland officials, once again distorted historical facts and misled the public. Chen Binhua, spokesman for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, said Lai has stubbornly adhered to a "Taiwan independence" stance, exaggerated the so-called "mainland threat", and agitated for "democracy against authoritarianism". "Lai's attempts to pursue 'independence through military means' and 'relying on external forces', while expanding military preparations, will only undermine peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait, escalate tensions in the Strait, increase the burden on the people of Taiwan, threaten Taiwan's economic lifeline and development prospects, and bring disaster to Taiwan society," Chen said. Chen emphasized that there is but one China in the world, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory, which is the real status of the Taiwan Strait. "No matter what Lai says or does, it cannot change the historical and legal fact that Taiwan is a part of China," Chen said, stressing that "it cannot stop the historical trend that China will ultimately and inevitably achieve reunification." Hsiao Hsu-tsen, executive director of the Taiwan-based Ma Ying-jeou Culture and Education Foundation, said Lai's move to abandon the path of cross-Strait reconciliation and adopt a "head-on" military confrontation stance sends a dangerous signal. Hsiao also criticized Lai's remarks regarding World War II. "It is regrettable that Lai once again invoked the erroneous historical view of the 'end of war' in his speech," he said. At a regular news conference on Friday, Guo Jiakun, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, condemned Lai for distorting and challenging historical facts and international consensus. "Any attempt to distort historical facts or challenge the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758 not only undermines China's sovereignty and territorial integrity but also challenges the authority of the UN and the post-World War II international order," Guo said. "To safeguard peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait, it is essential to uphold the one-China principle and firmly oppose 'Taiwan independence'," he said. In the speech, Lai reiterated his plan to raise Taiwan's "defense budget" to over 3 percent of the region's GDP, and eventually to 5 percent by 2030. Chen Guiqing, a research fellow at the Institute of Taiwan Studies under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said Lai's plan reflects a militaristic approach that is depleting Taiwan's resources. According to Chen Guiqing, Taiwan's overall budget in 2025 is about NT$3.1 trillion ($101.4 billion). "Allocating 3 percent of GDP to defense already represents a significant increase in its share of the total budget. If the figure rises to 5 percent, it would mean that up to 40 percent of total spending would go to defense," he said. "This would severely squeeze funding for other areas such as economic development, social welfare and education, ultimately undermining the well-being and interests of the people of Taiwan," Chen added. According to media reports, Taiwan's first "indigenous submarine" has encountered difficulties in construction and may not be delivered on schedule. Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman, Jiang Bin, said that the Democratic Progressive Party authorities have disregarded the safety and well-being of the people of Taiwan, squandering their hard-earned money to seek "independence through military means". "Persisting on this dangerous path that harms and ruins Taiwan will only push the island into a disastrous abyss," Jiang said. Chen said that only by adhering to the one-China principle and the 1992 Consensus can peace and stability in the Strait be genuinely guaranteed, enabling Taiwan people to enjoy a good life and Taiwan's economy to have greater opportunities and certainty through cross-Strait economic cooperation and integrated development. 