Quzhou in E China promotes Chinese etiquette education to foster harmonious living environment - People's Daily Online Tourists watch a performance themed on filial responsibility in Dachen Village of Quzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 25, 2025. In recent years, Quzhou has been fostering a harmonious living environment by promoting Chinese etiquette education to the public and putting the idea of "good-mannered" into its governmental service. (Xinhua/Jin Haoyuan) A volunteer guides pedestrians to go across the road in Quzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 26, 2025. In recent years, Quzhou has been fostering a harmonious living environment by promoting Chinese etiquette education to the public and putting the idea of "good-mannered" into its governmental service. (Xinhua/Jin Haoyuan) Students pay tribute to teachers at Nanzong Confucius Temple in Quzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 26, 2025. In recent years, Quzhou has been fostering a harmonious living environment by promoting Chinese etiquette education to the public and putting the idea of "good-mannered" into its governmental service. (Xinhua/Jin Haoyuan) Performers are seen during a performance themed on filial responsibility in Dachen Village of Quzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 25, 2025. In recent years, Quzhou has been fostering a harmonious living environment by promoting Chinese etiquette education to the public and putting the idea of "good-mannered" into its governmental service. (Xinhua/Jin Haoyuan) This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2025 shows a service center for government affairs in Quzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province. In recent years, Quzhou has been fostering a harmonious living environment by promoting Chinese etiquette education to the public and putting the idea of "good-mannered" into its governmental service. (Xinhua/Jin Haoyuan) A parent and children make handy crafts in Quzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 26, 2025. In recent years, Quzhou has been fostering a harmonious living environment by promoting Chinese etiquette education to the public and putting the idea of "good-mannered" into its governmental service. (Xinhua/Jin Haoyuan) Performers are seen during a performance themed on filial responsibility in Dachen Village of Quzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 25, 2025. In recent years, Quzhou has been fostering a harmonious living environment by promoting Chinese etiquette education to the public and putting the idea of "good-mannered" into its governmental service. (Xinhua/Jin Haoyuan) 