China welcomes more countries to join International Organization for Mediation: FM - People's Daily Online Regarding the details about the inauguration ceremony of the International Organization for Mediation (IOMed) held in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) on Monday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Guo Jiakun said on Tuesday that the IOMed's vision is highly consistent with the Global Governance Initiative. It upholds the principles of reconciliation, cooperation and harmony; fairness, justice and impartiality; extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits; as well as people-oriented and pragmatic approaches. On Monday, the inauguration ceremony of the IOMed was held in the HKSAR and nearly 200 representatives from more than 30 founding member states of the IOMed Convention and various sectors of Hong Kong attended the event, Guo said. Vice Foreign Minister Hua Chunying attended the ceremony and delivered a speech. As a new initiative in the field of international rule of law, the IOMed will inject legal vitality into building a community with a shared future for mankind and help Hong Kong develop into a "capital of mediation," the spokesperson said. On May 30, Wang Yi, Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Foreign Minister, attended the signing ceremony of the IOMed Convention in the HKSAR and signed the convention on behalf of China. The convention came into force in August this year, with 37 countries having signed and 8 having ratified it so far, the spokesperson said. Within just five months, the IOMed has achieved the signing, entry into force, and commencement of operations - an exceptionally fast pace in the history of international institutional development. This fully demonstrates that the establishment of the IOMed responds to the call of the times and has received broad support and positive response from the international community, Guo noted. As the initiator and host country of the IOMed, China welcomes more countries to join the organization and strengthen cooperation with it at an early date, so as to make new contributions to promoting world peace and development, Guo said. Some experts from the city's legal field believe that the official launch of the IOMed marks a milestone moment, representing a new opportunity for the city and a new chapter for the rule of law. It not only opens a fresh avenue for resolving international disputes, but also demonstrates China's commitment to promoting the rule of law on the global stage, they noted. 