Chinese legislators hear reports at NPC standing committee session - People's Daily Online Zhao Leji, chairman of the National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, presides over the third plenary meeting of the 18th session of the 14th NPC Standing Committee at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Bin) BEIJING, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- Chinese lawmakers met on Sunday to deliberate reports at an ongoing session of the Standing Committee of the 14th National People's Congress (NPC), the top legislature. Zhao Leji, chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, attended the plenary meeting of the session. A report on the inspection of the food security law's implementation was heard at the meeting. The report introduced the overall situation regarding the implementation of the law, as well as various challenges and problems. It proposed measures for more comprehensive and effective implementation, including the prompt initiation of a comprehensive revision of the law. Lawmakers reviewed a report on the inspection of the Forest Law's implementation, which highlighted notable progress in forest resource conservation and ecological restoration in China. The report also identified key challenges and issues in enforcing the law, offering recommendations to strengthen its full and effective implementation, including enhancing both the quantity and quality of forest resources. The meeting also heard a report on financial work, covering key developments and outcomes since November 2024, along with the current economic and financial challenges. The report outlined the next steps, including the implementation of a moderately loose monetary policy, further strengthening and refining financial regulation, and focusing on providing high-quality financial services. The meeting reviewed three reports concerning the management of state-owned assets in 2024. The meeting heard a report on the execution of criminal punishments, detailing the main efforts and achievements of the judicial and law enforcement institutions since 2021. The report also addressed the challenges currently in enforcing criminal sentences and proposed measures to improve its efficiency and integrity. Lawmakers also reviewed a report from the head of the Supreme People's Court on maritime trials in the people's courts, as well as a report from the procurator-general of the Supreme People's Procuratorate on the supervision of the execution of criminal punishment by the people's procuratorates. 