China launches new communication technology test satellite-Xinhua A Long March-5 rocket carrying a new communication technology test satellite blasts off from Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Du Xinxin/Xinhua) WENCHANG, Hainan, Oct. 23 (Xinhua) -- China on Thursday sent a new communication technology test satellite into space from the Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province. Launched at 10:30 p.m. (Beijing Time) aboard a Long March-5 rocket, the satellite has entered its planned orbit successfully. It will be used mainly to carry out multi-band and high-speed communication technology validation tests. The launch was the 602nd mission of the Long March carrier rocket series. ■ A Long March-5 rocket carrying a new communication technology test satellite blasts off from Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province, Oct. 23, 2025. China on Thursday sent a new communication technology test satellite into space from the Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province. Launched at 10:30 p.m. (Beijing Time) aboard a Long March-5 rocket, the satellite has entered its planned orbit successfully. It will be used mainly to carry out multi-band and high-speed communication technology validation tests. The launch was the 602nd mission of the Long March carrier rocket series. (Xinhua/Pu Xiaoxu) A Long March-5 rocket carrying a new communication technology test satellite blasts off from Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province, Oct. 23, 2025. China on Thursday sent a new communication technology test satellite into space from the Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province. Launched at 10:30 p.m. (Beijing Time) aboard a Long March-5 rocket, the satellite has entered its planned orbit successfully. It will be used mainly to carry out multi-band and high-speed communication technology validation tests. The launch was the 602nd mission of the Long March carrier rocket series. (Xinhua/Pu Xiaoxu) A Long March-5 rocket carrying a new communication technology test satellite blasts off from Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province, Oct. 23, 2025. China on Thursday sent a new communication technology test satellite into space from the Wenchang Space Launch Site in south China's Hainan Province. Launched at 10:30 p.m. (Beijing Time) aboard a Long March-5 rocket, the satellite has entered its planned orbit successfully. It will be used mainly to carry out multi-band and high-speed communication technology validation tests. The launch was the 602nd mission of the Long March carrier rocket series. (Photo by Du Xinxin/Xinhua) 