"Meet China" cultural festival held in Switzerland-Xinhua Actresses perform acrobatics during the "Meet China" cultural festival at Waisenhaus Square in Bern, the capital of Switzerland, Oct. 25, 2025. The festival was held here on Saturday to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Switzerland and the 76th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. It spotlighted a variety of performances including Chinese martial arts, acrobatics, and Swiss alpine horn, as well as about 20 cultural experiences such as sachet making and lacquer fan crafting. (Xinhua/Lian Yi) A child tries lacquer fan crafting during the "Meet China" cultural festival at Waisenhaus Square in Bern, the capital of Switzerland, Oct. 25, 2025. The festival was held here on Saturday to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Switzerland and the 76th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. It spotlighted a variety of performances including Chinese martial arts, acrobatics, and Swiss alpine horn, as well as about 20 cultural experiences such as sachet making and lacquer fan crafting. (Xinhua/Lian Yi) Children learn to make sachets during the "Meet China" cultural festival at Waisenhaus Square in Bern, the capital of Switzerland, Oct. 25, 2025. The festival was held here on Saturday to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Switzerland and the 76th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. It spotlighted a variety of performances including Chinese martial arts, acrobatics, and Swiss alpine horn, as well as about 20 cultural experiences such as sachet making and lacquer fan crafting. (Xinhua/Lian Yi) A man performs Swiss alpine horn during the "Meet China" cultural festival at Waisenhaus Square in Bern, the capital of Switzerland, Oct. 25, 2025. The festival was held here on Saturday to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Switzerland and the 76th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. It spotlighted a variety of performances including Chinese martial arts, acrobatics, and Swiss alpine horn, as well as about 20 cultural experiences such as sachet making and lacquer fan crafting. (Xinhua/Lian Yi) People perform Chinese martial arts (Kung Fu) during the "Meet China" cultural festival at Waisenhaus Square in Bern, the capital of Switzerland, Oct. 25, 2025. The festival was held here on Saturday to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Switzerland and the 76th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. It spotlighted a variety of performances including Chinese martial arts, acrobatics, and Swiss alpine horn, as well as about 20 cultural experiences such as sachet making and lacquer fan crafting. (Xinhua/Lian Yi) 