Chinese innovations convert smart ideas into global hits-Xinhua SHENZHEN, Oct. 27 (Xinhua) -- In a viral social media video, NBA star Shaquille O'Neal tried on a Chinese-manufactured exoskeleton robot and, after attempting a running motion, exclaimed: "It's so light! I must take this back to the U.S." Kenqing Technology, a Shenzhen-based startup behind this cyborg product, is one of Chinese tech firms that are developing solutions for the country's aging society via similar inventions. These firms are at the forefront of China's new electronic creativity, a component of its massive industrial shift toward "new quality productive forces." TIME's "The Best Inventions of 2025," a list of 300 products released this month, stood out for including over 40 Chinese entries. A significant number of these are consumer electronics packed with life-changing potential. For those eager to try novel gadgets, these recommendations feature an impressive array of Chinese-designed innovations, from BYD's electric car and Huawei's latest smartphones, to an AI model, AR glasses, 360-degree drone cameras, programmable bipedal robots, solar-powered laptops and smart bird-watching monitors. Unitree R1 is an agile robot with a starting price of under 6,000 U.S. dollars. Also, a model unveiled by a Beijing-based startup last week, priced below 1,500 dollars, is set for pre-sale in November. Such accessibility, notably, is made possible by China's complete industrial chain and rapid manufacturing response. China's Yangtze River Delta and Pearl River Delta regions have extremely well-developed supply chains, said Zhao Tongyang, founder of Shenzhen-based robotic startup EngineAI. "For example, a component that once cost 2,000 yuan (about 280 U.S. dollars) to import -- can now be made locally for just 200 yuan." The nation's next five-year plan for economic and social development, which is in the process of formulation, is widely expected to outline a strategy to anchor the economy with a strong manufacturing base and construct a modern industrial system with advanced manufacturing as its backbone. The appearance of the DeepSeek R1 reasoning model early this year, described as "a shot heard around the world" in AI circles by TIME magazine's editor for best inventions, signaled China's latest advance in digital technology. China's AI agenda, however, has a distinct focus on applying AI within tangible products. Rokid, a Hangzhou-based tech company, has recently achieved great success with its new AR glasses that allow wearers to deliver speeches smoothly by displaying a script directly in their line of sight. Global orders for this AI terminal surpassed 250,000 units -- almost immediately after its launch in June 2025. Similarly, a growing number of home-designed intelligent appliances, like robot vacuum cleaners, are gaining significant market share globally. Indeed, Chinese engineers are demonstrating considerable expertise in integrating smart algorithms with hardware. For instance, lawn-mowing and swimming-pool-cleaning robots, which can autonomously plan tasks, are meeting previously unmet needs among overseas users and converting China's technical prowess into hit products. "Chinese designs and creations becoming global hits will be more commonplace," said Ren Guanjiao, founder of Willand, a Beijing-based lawnmower maker. Another award-winning Chinese invention enhances buildings by making them more energy-efficient and aesthetically pleasing. Jackery's new solar roof features curved tiles -- the first on the market designed to blend seamlessly into neighborhoods with terracotta roofs, proving that solar panels can match aesthetic demands. "Solar no longer clashes with design codes or HOA (U.S. Home Owner Association) restrictions," said this Shenzhen manufacturer's CEO Sun Zhongwei. ■ 