China Focus: Let's go to factories -- Factory tours emerging as new Spring Festival travel trend-Xinhua by Xinhua writers Yi Ling and Zhao Jiasong BEIJING, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- During China's most significant holiday, the Spring Festival, millions of workers left factories to reunite with their families. However, a very new contrasting trend is emerging, with people doing the opposite by flocking to such workplaces for unique adventures. Factory tours are increasingly becoming a popular choice among Chinese tourists. Instead of immersing themselves in the serene tranquility or vast majesty of nature, these travelers opt to witness the evolution of China -- observing its past, present and future through the lens of industrial development. THE PAST REVIVED Founded in 1919, Shougang Group is one of China's largest steelmakers, producing nearly 10 million tonnes of steel annually and employing over 100,000 people. For decades, its factory in Beijing's Shijingshan District symbolized the country's industrial might, until environmental concerns and urban development priorities prompted its closure ahead of the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics. These steel operations were relocated to Tangshan in adjacent Hebei Province, marking the start of a historic transformation for Shougang's main production site. Today, Shougang Park stands as a testament to urban renewal and industrial heritage preservation. The 8.63-square-kilometer area has become a hub for culture, sports, technology and tourism. Massive blast furnaces, once integral to steel production, now host exhibitions, events and guided tours. Cooling towers and industrial silos have been converted into creative spaces, while the park's most iconic structure, the "Big Air Shougang" -- a ski jump platform for the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics -- has solidified its place as a global landmark. "Shougang Park has undergone a dramatic rebirth," said Wu Xin, deputy director of asset operations at Beijing Shougang Construction Investment Co., Ltd. "It's a living example of how an industrial site can evolve into a vibrant space for culture, commerce and community." In 2024 alone, the park welcomed over 13 million visitors, generating 5.8 billion yuan (about 809 million U.S. dollars) in revenue. It now features many attractions and luxurious accommodation, and has also hosted events. For Beijing resident Li Long, part of his childhood may have disappeared due to the transformation of the factory, but the nostalgia remains tangible. The 48-year-old, son of a former Shougang employee, took his wife and son to revisit his "little paradise" during this Spring Festival holiday. "I used to come here a lot to play games with my friends during the summer holidays, sometimes waiting for my father to finish work and then going to the factory's canteen for a meal before heading home together," recalled Li, noting the towering furnaces had played the role of "evil monsters" in his childhood games. Back in the 1980s, being a worker at Shougang was a coveted position for many. It offered job security and additional benefits, such as access to the staff canteen. "This is actually my first time exploring the entire factory and understanding its layout, as I could only visit a very limited area when I was a child as a family member of a Shougang worker," said Li. "How interesting it is now that the park is accessible free of charge and open to everyone," he added. Shougang's industrial tourism appeal extends beyond its physical transformation. The park's planners have carefully balanced preservation and innovation. Visitors can ascend one of the restored blast furnaces, where panoramic observation decks provide views of both industrial relics and Beijing's modern skyline. The site also serves as a living museum of steel production history, with interactive exhibits detailing the plant's century-long legacy. GRASS SEED TO DROP OF MILK While Shougang Park represents the revitalization of a historical industrial site, Chinese dairy giant Yili Group's Health Valley industrial scenic area reveals the future of sustainable manufacturing and industrial tourism. Located in Hohhot, capital of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in north China, the company has transformed its facilities into a destination that combines ecological responsibility with technological innovation. Since launching its industrial tourism program in 2005, Yili Group and its factories across China have recorded nearly 3 billion visits, allowing the tourists to witness "the journey from a grass seed to a drop of milk," said Wang Jia, a business manager at Yili Group. The company's latest initiative, known as Health Valley, features a groundbreaking "zero-carbon factory," where advanced technologies like automated "dark warehouses" and AI-driven production systems minimize environmental impact while maximizing efficiency. "In the past, I always thought that a factory was all about workers busy on the assembly lines, but here, I saw a highly automated production line. Almost the entire production process did not need manual intervention, proving both efficient and accurate," said Song Jia, a tourist from southwest China's Sichuan Province. "At Yili, sustainability is not just a goal -- it's a core part of our identity," said Wang. "Our industrial tourism program allows visitors to see firsthand how we integrate green practices into every aspect of our operations." Health Valley offers visitors a uniquely immersive experience. Through AI, VR and 5G technologies, guests can explore virtual dairy farms, interact with robots, and witness the production of milk, yogurt and other dairy products. The site also has a state-of-the-art 5D cinema, where visitors embark on a multi-sensory adventure through the "Milk Universe." For families, Health Valley provides hands-on educational activities, such as milk-processing workshops and science-themed baking classes. Children can even create their own nutritional profiles and learn about the science behind Yili's products. These initiatives have been instrumental in fostering a deeper connection between consumers and the brand. "Traditional scenic spots are mainly about natural scenery or historical culture, while Health Valley features a combination of modern industry and technology. It is a brand-new travel experience," said Xie Xin, a resident of Hohhot. HIGH-TECH WONDERLAND In a rare move to showcase its cutting-edge automotive production capabilities, China's tech giant Xiaomi opened the doors of its smart car factory in Beijing to the public at the start of 2025. Located in the Beijing Economic-Technological Development Area, the facility, sprawling across 718,000 square meters, almost the same size as the Palace Museum, is a marvel of modern engineering, where the company's first electric vehicle SU7 rolled off assembly line. The factory tour offers a look at the future of automotive manufacturing. Inside its workshops, over 700 industrial robots are performing tasks ranging from welding and painting to assembly and quality inspection. Visitors are greeted by robotic arms assembling car parts with surgical precision, autonomous vehicles transporting materials while "humming" tunes, and intelligent systems monitoring every step of the production process. "I was blown away by the scale and sophistication of this place," said Xie Ben from central China's Hunan Province. "It's more than just a factory. It's a testament to what's possible when technology and innovation come together." The factory, which integrates research, testing and production, is divided into six specialized workshops -- stamping, casting, body assembly, painting, battery production, and final assembly. A 2.5-kilometer test track completes the facility, ensuring every vehicle meets quality standards before leaving the factory. One of the most impressive features is Xiaomi's self-developed 9,100-tonne super die-casting machine, the world's largest of its kind that has the size of two basketball courts. "This machine is a game-changer," said a factory engineer. "It allows us to produce large, complex car parts in one piece -- significantly improving efficiency and structural integrity." The factory also boasts a 91-percent automation rate, with key processes achieving 100 percent automation. Every 76 seconds, a brand-new SU7 rolls off the production line, underlining the facility's remarkable efficiency. "It's like watching a symphony of machines. I'm not always a fan of machines, but this Xiaomi factory tour has changed my mind, because I saw the future and it's beautiful," said Zhao Qiuyue, a Beijing resident, during a recent tour. ■ 