Column: ASEAN-GCC-China cooperation a new "golden triangle" in global affairs-Xinhua by Julia Roknifard A remarkable mechanism of multilateral cooperation is emerging as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), China and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) are to hold an inaugural joint summit. The three parties now have more incentive than ever to coordinate in the current geopolitical climate, as some major countries are pursuing confrontation and protectionism, making the list of divergent interests only growing longer. CHINA AS AN ANCHOR FOR ASEAN-GCC China has already had a transformative impact on ASEAN and the broader Middle East economically, including the GCC states, through major infrastructure, trade and development efforts -- particularly the Belt and Road Initiative and the Global Development Initiative. But the relationship runs deeper, with growing cooperation in technology, industrial development, tourism, cultural exchange and longstanding people-to-people ties. Malaysia, which assumed ASEAN's rotating chairmanship in 2025, has counted China as its largest trading partner since 2009 and has consistently advocated for deeper regional integration. Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim has also been an active and outspoken voice on Middle East affairs, positioning Malaysia as a fitting host for the upcoming tripartite summit. Like many ASEAN nations, Malaysia has sought to steer clear of global trade tensions, upholding a policy of free and open trade while broadening its international partnerships, including joining the BRICS group in 2024. The move underscores a push to deepen ties and trade with China, as it faces tariffs and other forms of pressure from the United States. Meanwhile, China's diplomatic and stabilizing role on crucial issues has also boosted its standing in the region. Its calls for a peaceful and just resolution to the Palestinian conflict resonate with many in ASEAN, while its success in bringing together key Middle East powers, especially Iran and Saudi Arabia, has further elevated its profile and generated goodwill across the region. BUILDING RESILIENT ECONOMIC TIES The convergence of major energy exporters in the GCC, ASEAN's large consumer base, and China's massive market of over 1.4 billion people promises significant benefits for all parties. Together, they hold enough resources within their borders to sustain trade to weather potential restrictions or disruptions. Despite efforts to draw ASEAN and the GCC members into bloc confrontation, the West is unable to pressure these countries as it previously could with its military and economic power, signalling a steady erosion of the leverage it once had. Amid ongoing conflicts and shifting economic realities, countries are increasingly prioritizing partnerships that best serve their development goals, rather than accepting policies that hinder their progress. Bringing together all three parties creates a new platform for cooperation. Barring interference from outside parties, this emerging "Golden Triangle" of resources, manufacturing, and consumers is poised to drive the global economy forward. It could also accelerate the spread of cutting-edge technologies pioneered by China -- particularly in renewable energy vehicles and artificial intelligence tools like DeepSeek, which is developed at a fraction of the cost of Western counterparts. BURYING THE UNIPOLAR ORDER As major European economies are close to recession and de-industrialization, and the United States itself has lost its edge in shipbuilding tonnage and continues to lapse in other sectors, China continues to move forward as it is able to recognize this simple fact that ASEAN, the GCC and other regional groupings across Africa and Latin America are looking forward to a new era of peace and stable international relations. While these aspirations might or might not result in a tight integration of ASEAN-GCC-China in foreseeable future, the alternative -- watching other nations drift toward harmful, fragmented policies -- is a far bleaker scenario than the promise of renewed global cooperation and shared prosperity. Editor's note: Julia Roknifard is a senior lecturer at the School of Law and Governance at Taylor's University. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency. 