Int'l guests visit cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, China's Gansu-Xinhua International guests learn about an environmental management project while visiting the Mogao Grottoes in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 12, 2025. From October 11 to 12, guests from Armenia, Italy, Turkey, Nepal, and other countries attending the Global Mayors Dialogue -- Dunhuang event visited cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, experiencing the historical charm of the city. (Xinhua/Fan Peishen) International guests visit the Dunhuang Press in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 11, 2025. From October 11 to 12, guests from Armenia, Italy, Turkey, Nepal, and other countries attending the Global Mayors Dialogue -- Dunhuang event visited cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, experiencing the historical charm of the city. (Xinhua/Fan Peishen) International guests visit the Dunhuang Press in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 11, 2025. From October 11 to 12, guests from Armenia, Italy, Turkey, Nepal, and other countries attending the Global Mayors Dialogue -- Dunhuang event visited cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, experiencing the historical charm of the city. (Xinhua/Zhang Rui) International guests visit the Crescent Spring and Mingsha Sand Dune scenic area in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 12, 2025. From October 11 to 12, guests from Armenia, Italy, Turkey, Nepal, and other countries attending the Global Mayors Dialogue -- Dunhuang event visited cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, experiencing the historical charm of the city. (Photo by Wang Shengyuan/Xinhua) International guests visit the Mogao Grottoes in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 12, 2025. From October 11 to 12, guests from Armenia, Italy, Turkey, Nepal, and other countries attending the Global Mayors Dialogue -- Dunhuang event visited cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, experiencing the historical charm of the city. (Xinhua/Fan Peishen) International guests visit a night market in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 11, 2025. From October 11 to 12, guests from Armenia, Italy, Turkey, Nepal, and other countries attending the Global Mayors Dialogue -- Dunhuang event visited cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, experiencing the historical charm of the city. (Xinhua/Fan Peishen) An international guest visits the Dunhuang Press in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 11, 2025. From October 11 to 12, guests from Armenia, Italy, Turkey, Nepal, and other countries attending the Global Mayors Dialogue -- Dunhuang event visited cultural landmarks in Dunhuang, experiencing the historical charm of the city. (Xinhua/Zhang Rui) 