Over 10 million Californians join annual earthquake preparedness drill-Xinhua People experience a simulated 7.8-magnitude earthquake inside an earthquake simulator at the City of Los Angeles Emergency Operations Center in downtown Los Angeles, California, the United States, Oct. 16, 2025. More than 10 million Californians on Thursday took part in an annual statewide earthquake preparedness drill designed to raise public awareness and strengthen response capabilities for major quakes. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua) LOS ANGELES, Oct. 16 (Xinhua) -- More than 10 million Californians on Thursday took part in an annual statewide earthquake preparedness drill designed to raise public awareness and strengthen response capabilities for major quakes. At 10:16 a.m. local time, residents across the state paused their daily activities to practice "Drop, Cover, and Hold On," a key safety action recommended during strong earthquakes. According to the organizer's website, over 10.4 million people registered for this year's "Great California ShakeOut," part of the global Great ShakeOut Earthquake Drills network, which has drawn more than 58 million participants worldwide for the 2025 edition. The event offers individuals, schools and communities an opportunity to practice earthquake safety measures, review emergency plans, and update disaster supplies. ■ Staff members at the City of Los Angeles Emergency Operations Center follow instructions during an earthquake drill, practicing the "Drop, Cover, and Hold On" procedure in downtown Los Angeles, California, the United States, Oct. 16, 2025. More than 10 million Californians on Thursday took part in an annual statewide earthquake preparedness drill designed to raise public awareness and strengthen response capabilities for major quakes. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua) People experience a simulated 7.8-magnitude earthquake inside an earthquake simulator at the City of Los Angeles Emergency Operations Center in downtown Los Angeles, California, the United States, Oct. 16, 2025. More than 10 million Californians on Thursday took part in an annual statewide earthquake preparedness drill designed to raise public awareness and strengthen response capabilities for major quakes. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua) Staff members at the City of Los Angeles Emergency Operations Center follow instructions during an earthquake drill, practicing the "Drop, Cover, and Hold On" procedure in downtown Los Angeles, California, the United States, Oct. 16, 2025. More than 10 million Californians on Thursday took part in an annual statewide earthquake preparedness drill designed to raise public awareness and strengthen response capabilities for major quakes. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua) Staff members at the City of Los Angeles Emergency Operations Center follow instructions during an earthquake drill, practicing the "Drop, Cover, and Hold On" procedure in downtown Los Angeles, California, the United States, Oct. 16, 2025. More than 10 million Californians on Thursday took part in an annual statewide earthquake preparedness drill designed to raise public awareness and strengthen response capabilities for major quakes. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua) Staff members at the City of Los Angeles Emergency Operations Center follow instructions on how to respond to aftershocks following a major earthquake drill in downtown Los Angeles, California, the United States, Oct. 16, 2025. More than 10 million Californians on Thursday took part in an annual statewide earthquake preparedness drill designed to raise public awareness and strengthen response capabilities for major quakes. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua) 