Global mayors discuss cultural governance in NW China's Dunhuang-Xinhua The opening ceremony of the Global Mayors Dialogue Dunhuang is held in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 13, 2025. A forum bringing together mayors or their representatives, diplomats and scholars from 10 countries opened on Monday in Dunhuang, a city along the ancient Silk Road in northwest China's Gansu Province. The forum aims to discuss opportunities and challenges in cultural urban governance. Themed "A Symphony of Civilizations, Resonance in Harmony," the Global Mayors Dialogue Dunhuang focuses on practical governance issues, including leveraging cultural resources, environmental protection, green development and smart city construction. (Xinhua/Fan Peishen) LANZHOU, Oct. 13 (Xinhua) -- A forum bringing together mayors or their representatives, diplomats and scholars from 10 countries opened on Monday in Dunhuang, a city along the ancient Silk Road in northwest China's Gansu Province. The forum aims to discuss opportunities and challenges in cultural urban governance. Themed "A Symphony of Civilizations, Resonance in Harmony," the Global Mayors Dialogue Dunhuang focuses on practical governance issues, including leveraging cultural resources, environmental protection, green development and smart city construction. Against the backdrop of rapid global urbanization, attendees emphasize the growing importance of balancing cultural heritage conservation with urban growth. Notably, strengthening international cooperation is highlighted as a key response to these shared challenges. As the host city, Dunhuang -- home to three UNESCO World Heritage sites and over 260 cultural relic sites -- is showcasing its integrated approach in recent years to preserving cultural legacy while enhancing urban quality. Dunhuang's unique natural landscape, profound cultural heritage and long history are highly impressive features of this city. Dunhuang is not only a symbol of China but also demonstrates to the world how modern development can achieve harmony by respecting nature and preserving history, said Tigran Poghosyan, head of the Garni community in the Kotayk region of Armenia. Yu Chenghui, deputy director of the Standing Committee of the Gansu Provincial People's Congress, said at the opening ceremony that through dialogue, participants will share experiences, expand cooperation and help cities find new solutions to issues such as cultural heritage protection, urban governance and sustainable development. ■ The opening ceremony of the Global Mayors Dialogue Dunhuang is held in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 13, 2025. A forum bringing together mayors or their representatives, diplomats and scholars from 10 countries opened on Monday in Dunhuang, a city along the ancient Silk Road in northwest China's Gansu Province. The forum aims to discuss opportunities and challenges in cultural urban governance. Themed "A Symphony of Civilizations, Resonance in Harmony," the Global Mayors Dialogue Dunhuang focuses on practical governance issues, including leveraging cultural resources, environmental protection, green development and smart city construction. (Xinhua/Fan Peishen) Participants attend the opening ceremony of the Global Mayors Dialogue Dunhuang, in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 13, 2025. A forum bringing together mayors or their representatives, diplomats and scholars from 10 countries opened on Monday in Dunhuang, a city along the ancient Silk Road in northwest China's Gansu Province. The forum aims to discuss opportunities and challenges in cultural urban governance. Themed "A Symphony of Civilizations, Resonance in Harmony," the Global Mayors Dialogue Dunhuang focuses on practical governance issues, including leveraging cultural resources, environmental protection, green development and smart city construction. (Xinhua/Fan Peishen) 