China pushes tech frontiers to fuel prosperity in next 5 years-Xinhua BEIJING, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- China is spearheading a profound transformation fueled by the cultivation of what it terms "new quality productive forces" in the coming five years. At the very core of this ambitious shift lies a resolute commitment to translating cutting-edge technologies into burgeoning new industries. The country plans to turn next-generation industries, including quantum technology, bio-manufacturing, hydrogen energy and fusion energy, brain-computer interfaces, embodied intelligence and sixth-generation mobile communications, into new engines of economic growth. Such vibrant prospects are underpinned by a resilient manufacturing supply chain and a fast-growing private sector. DIGITAL EMPOWERMENT Within China's Pearl River Delta, a region long synonymous with its manufacturing prowess, a novel form of workforce is rapidly taking shape: the humanoid robot. Pioneering startups like EngineAI, born and bred in the tech hub of Shenzhen, are pushing the boundaries of what these sophisticated machines are capable of achieving. EngineAI's engineers have created robotic models endowed with uncannily human-like gaits. "The posture and the way they walk are just the first step. When intelligence is combined with form, it becomes even harder to distinguish them from real humans," said Zhao Tongyang, EngineAI's founder. UBTECH, also a native of the city, offers a more pragmatic alternative. It focuses on deploying robots in factories to perform practical tasks, and its products are already undergoing training in multiple automotive plants. Currently in China, 470 industrial robots are deployed for every 10,000 manufacturing workers. And in the years to come, AI-empowered humanoid robots are poised to join human workforces, particularly in the handling of open-ended tasks that require cognitive capabilities. Having topped global manufacturing output for 15 years, China is now building on that strength to focus on quality and sophistication. The country has built a robust foundation of smart factories, with more than 35,000 facilities at the foundational level. The launch of open-source models like DeepSeek has sparked optimism in global markets about China's AI capabilities, yet this is just a precursor to the far greater economic potential of integrating AI with its massive manufacturing sector. This strategic shift towards tech-intensive production is seen as a pivotal way of achieving sustainable economic growth. "This could be the next industrial revolution. Moving in this direction is definitely the right choice," said Zhao. NEW FRONTIERS Beyond making traditional industries smarter and more efficient, China is also scaling up emerging sectors and actively cultivating future industries. Shanghai-based NeuroXess is among the tech firms developing brain-computer interface (BCI) devices, as the city pushes to become a leading center for the industry of the future. NeuroXess has successfully implanted electrodes in 10 participants with epilepsy, allowing them to communicate complex Chinese sentences using only their thoughts. Similar clinical trials are currently being conducted in Beijing and Shanghai. Drawing inspiration from silk, one of ancient China's greatest technological inventions, the team is testing an innovative approach of coating electrodes with silk protein. This engineering solution could significantly enhance the safety of implant operations. QuantumCTek, based in eastern Chinese city of Hefei, is positioning itself to industrialize quantum secure communication. Alongside quantum computing, this area is anticipated to spearhead the next round of quantum revolution, and a high-stakes global race in this domain is now unfolding. "We shrank the entire device into a small module, and we are now working towards a single chip the size of a phone," said Tang Shibiao, QuantumCTek's R&D director, explaining the miniaturization process aimed at transforming an unhackable encryption technology into an affordable gadget for the public. Although the quantum information industry still faces uncertainties, it also holds disruptive potential, said Shi Fan from China Telecom's technology innovation department. "It serves as a powerful vehicle for fostering the new quality productive forces," he said. In China, a range of technologies that were confined to labs just a few years back -- ranging from eVTOLs to solid-state batteries, 6G and bio-manufacturing -- are now being rapidly moved to production lines, opening up a new frontier for growth. These industries are poised for significant growth, with the new scale added over the next decade equivalent to creating a whole new high-tech sector in China, said Zheng Shanjie, head of the National Development and Reform Commission, at a press conference on the guiding principles from the just-concluded fourth plenary session of the 20th CPC Central Committee. "We always choose the most difficult path, and we cannot guarantee we can make it on time," said Tao Hu, NeuroXess founder. "But if someone can make it, then it had better be us." INNOVATION HOTBED Chinese entrepreneurs cherish different ambitions, but they converge on a singular advantage: a complete, integrated ecosystem with strong links from raw material extraction to final production. "China's solid manufacturing base has given our innovations fertile ground to take root and grow," said Tang. QuantumCTek's quantum devices once depended on imported critical components. However, in recent years, this dependence has significantly diminished "thanks to the emergence of domestically produced alternatives." "The Yangtze River Delta and Pearl River Delta have extremely well-developed supply chains," said Zhao from EngineAI. "For example, a component that once cost 2,000 yuan (about 280 U.S. dollars) to import can now be made locally for just 200 yuan." Tech firms like EngineAI are emerging, securing venture investment quickly and pursuing diverse business models aggressively. The private sector has played a significant role in China's innovation landscape, comprising over 92 percent of all national high-tech enterprises. This vitality is further reflected in the count of 372 unicorn companies in 2024. This year, China implemented the country's first fundamental law dedicated to promoting the private sector. Additionally, local governments have been actively rolling out robust incentives for technology-intensive industries. Government support also comes from creating new consumption scenarios, such as opening autonomous vehicle testing zones and easing airspace controls for drones and eVTOLs. These measures shorten the path from lab to market, putting breakthrough products in consumers' hands sooner. At this year's World Robot Conference in Beijing, the organizers launched a "coupon for robotics" program, offering individual consumers up to 1,500 yuan in subsidies for robot purchases, while enterprise consumers can receive up to 250,000 yuan. Shortly after, a dedicated robotics store opened in a renovated industrial park located in Beijing's western suburbs, an area once dominated by old steel factories. Also recently, Beijing-based startup Noetix Robotics unveiled a robotic model priced below 10,000 yuan, which will be available for pre-sale in November. These breakthrough industries aren't stuck on some distant drawing board; they are racing straight into Chinese homes. ■ 