Xinhua Headlines: China, Kazakhstan to boost ties for regional, global peace, development-Xinhua Chinese President Xi Jinping and Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev hold talks at the presidential palace in Astana, Kazakhstan, June 16, 2025. (Xinhua/Huang Jingwen) ASTANA, June 16 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Monday that China stands ready to work with Kazakhstan to contribute more to regional and world peace and development with stability and positive energy of bilateral ties. Xi made the remarks when meeting with Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev ahead of the second China-Central Asia Summit. Xi pointed out that China-Kazakhstan relations have withstood the test of international changes and have consistently maintained a high level of development. This is due to the geographical proximity and the long-standing friendship between the two peoples, as well as the inevitable choice for the two countries to pursue development together, he said. In recent years under joint planning of the two leaders, Xi said, the China-Kazakhstan community with a shared future has become more substantial and richer in content, with tangible and people-centered outcomes continuously emerging, effectively enhancing the sense of fulfillment among the two peoples. China has always viewed and developed its relationship with Kazakhstan from a strategic and long-term perspective, and is willing to work together with Kazakhstan to unswervingly consolidate the friendship between the two countries, he said. Xi emphasized that both China and Kazakhstan are at crucial stages of their respective development and revitalization, and the two countries should work together to advance comprehensive cooperation. First, high-level strategic mutual trust should guide the development of bilateral relations, Xi said, urging both countries to continue to support each other on issues involving their core interests and major concerns, to promote synergy of their development strategies, to be strong supporters of each other amid the turbulent international situation, and to be helpful partners in their respective development and revitalization. Second, he said, high-quality Belt and Road cooperation should be used to improve bilateral cooperation. Efforts should be made to consolidate strengths of traditional cooperation in trade, investment and energy, advance the construction of cross-border railway projects and the upgrading of port infrastructure, promote connectivity, high-tech cooperation as well as green and sustainable development, Xi said. Third, he said, comprehensive security cooperation should be carried out to safeguard peace and stability of the two countries. This includes expanding law enforcement and defense exchanges, jointly combating terrorism, separatism and extremism, and deepening cooperation in emergency management as well as disaster prevention and mitigation, Xi said. Fourth, Xi noted, diversified people-to-people exchanges should be carried out to solidify the foundation of China-Kazakhstan friendship. He also called for organizing well the China tourism year in Kazakhstan and encouraging more exchanges among youth, media and think tanks as well as at the local level. Xi pointed out that in the face of the international situation intertwined with changes and chaos, China and Kazakhstan should firmly safeguard the international system with the United Nations at its core and the international order underpinned by international law, practice true multilateralism, and resolutely safeguard the common interests of developing countries. China commends Kazakhstan for the extensive preparatory work it has done for the second China-Central Asia Summit, and believes that this meeting will write a new chapter in cooperation between China and Central Asia, Xi said. Meanwhile, as the rotating presidency of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), China is willing to work with all member states to take this year's Tianjin summit as an opportunity to strengthen the organization and demonstrate new development, new breakthroughs and new looks. For his part, Tokayev said that China is a friendly neighbor, close friend and reliable partner of Kazakhstan. The Kazakhstan-China permanent comprehensive strategic partnership is entering a new golden age, driving the sustainable economic and social development of both countries, benefiting the two peoples, and serving as a model of relations between countries, he said. Noting that Kazakhstan and China share a strong political will to enhance cooperation, Tokayev said the two countries have always supported each other on issues concerning their core interests, such as sovereignty and security, regardless of changes in the international landscape. Under the wise leadership of President Xi, great achievements have been made in the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era, he said. Kazakhstan is sincerely glad for these achievements and firmly believes that China will continue to achieve greater development accomplishments, Tokayev said, adding that Kazakhstan is willing to deepen strategic mutual trust and all-round mutually beneficial cooperation with China and elevate bilateral relations to a new level. The two sides should jointly advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, expand cooperation in fields such as trade, investment, industry, agriculture, energy and transportation, and strengthen people-to-people exchanges in culture, education, sports and tourism, he added. The Kazakh side highly appreciates and actively supports China's commitment and efforts to safeguard international fairness and justice, and is ready to continue close cooperation and mutual support with China within multilateral frameworks such as the United Nations, the SCO, BRICS, the China-Central Asia mechanism, and the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, so as to push forward the development of the international order in a more just and reasonable direction. Following the talks, the two heads of state witnessed the exchange of more than 10 bilateral cooperation documents covering areas such as trade, investment, science and technology, customs, tourism, and media. ■ Chinese President Xi Jinping and Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev walk into the presidential palace in Astana, Kazakhstan, June 16, 2025. Xi held talks with Tokayev here on Monday. (Xinhua/Ding Lin) Chinese President Xi Jinping and Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev hold talks at the presidential palace in Astana, Kazakhstan, June 16, 2025. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi) Chinese President Xi Jinping shakes hands with Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev at the presidential palace in Astana, Kazakhstan, June 16, 2025. Xi held talks with Tokayev here on Monday. After their talks, the two leaders attended a ceremony of exchanging cooperation documents. (Xinhua/Li Tao) Chinese President Xi Jinping shakes hands with Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev at the presidential palace in Astana, Kazakhstan, June 16, 2025. Xi held talks with Tokayev here on Monday. After their talks, the two leaders attended a ceremony of exchanging cooperation documents. (Xinhua/Yan Yan) 