Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar opens in China's Hangzhou-Xinhua This photo taken on Oct. 17, 2025 shows a view of the outdoor exhibition area of Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) People visit the booth of the National Museum of China at Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) People view cultural and creative products at Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) People view Italian cultural and creative products at Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) People visit the booth of POP MART at Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) An exhibitor from England shows a porcelain piece at Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) People visit the booth of the Palace Museum at Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) A guest delivers a speech at a salon event during Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) People visit the booth of the National Museum of China at Liangzhu Cultural and Creative Bazaar in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 17, 2025. The bazaar opened here on Friday. It features activities such as exhibitions, panel discussions and fashion shows, showcasing cultural and creative achievements from China and abroad. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi) 