In pics: mass Bhai Tika ceremony during Tihar festival in Kathmandu, Nepal-Xinhua Men attend a mass Bhai Tika ceremony during the Tihar festival at Kasthamandap Temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, Oct. 23, 2025. The last day of Tihar, widely celebrated across Nepal, is known as Bhai Tika. On this day, sisters apply a tika on the foreheads of their brothers praying for their long life, good health and prosperity. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua) A man receives tika at the mass Bhai Tika ceremony during the Tihar festival at Kasthamandap Temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, Oct. 23, 2025. The last day of Tihar, widely celebrated across Nepal, is known as Bhai Tika. On this day, sisters apply a tika on the foreheads of their brothers praying for their long life, good health and prosperity. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua) Oil lamps are lit for the mass Bhai Tika ceremony during the Tihar festival at Kasthamandap Temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, Oct. 23, 2025. The last day of Tihar, widely celebrated across Nepal, is known as Bhai Tika. On this day, sisters apply a tika on the foreheads of their brothers praying for their long life, good health and prosperity. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua) A man with tika is seen at the mass Bhai Tika ceremony during the Tihar festival at Kasthamandap Temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, Oct. 23, 2025. The last day of Tihar, widely celebrated across Nepal, is known as Bhai Tika. On this day, sisters apply a tika on the foreheads of their brothers praying for their long life, good health and prosperity. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua) A woman performs a ritual for the mass Bhai Tika ceremony during the Tihar festival at Kasthamandap Temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, Oct. 23, 2025. The last day of Tihar, widely celebrated across Nepal, is known as Bhai Tika. On this day, sisters apply a tika on the foreheads of their brothers praying for their long life, good health and prosperity. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua) A man receives tika at the mass Bhai Tika ceremony during the Tihar festival at Kasthamandap Temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, Oct. 23, 2025. The last day of Tihar, widely celebrated across Nepal, is known as Bhai Tika. On this day, sisters apply a tika on the foreheads of their brothers praying for their long life, good health and prosperity. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua) 