Main structure of Xi'an East Station building in China's Shaanxi completed-Xinhua Constructors weld steel components at the construction site of Xi'an East Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The main structure of the Xi'an East Station building has been successfully completed on Monday. Serving as a comprehensive transportation hub integrating high-speed railway, conventional railway, metro, and bus services systems, the station is expected to handle an annual passenger volume of 36.5 million once it officially opens. (Photo by Liu Xiang/Xinhua) A drone photo taken on Oct. 27, 2025 shows constructors working at the construction site of Xi'an East Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province. The main structure of the Xi'an East Station building has been successfully completed on Monday. Serving as a comprehensive transportation hub integrating high-speed railway, conventional railway, metro, and bus services systems, the station is expected to handle an annual passenger volume of 36.5 million once it officially opens. (Photo by Liu Xiang/Xinhua) An aerial drone photo taken on Oct. 27, 2025 shows the construction site of Xi'an East Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province. The main structure of the Xi'an East Station building has been successfully completed on Monday. Serving as a comprehensive transportation hub integrating high-speed railway, conventional railway, metro, and bus services systems, the station is expected to handle an annual passenger volume of 36.5 million once it officially opens. (Photo by Liu Xiang/Xinhua) This photo taken on Oct. 27, 2025 shows the construction site of Xi'an East Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province. The main structure of the Xi'an East Station building has been successfully completed on Monday. Serving as a comprehensive transportation hub integrating high-speed railway, conventional railway, metro, and bus services systems, the station is expected to handle an annual passenger volume of 36.5 million once it officially opens. (Photo by Liu Xiang/Xinhua) 