China Focus: Global mayors inspired by transformation of China's porcelain capital-Xinhua NANCHANG, Oct. 19 (Xinhua) -- In an era defined by industrial speed and digital efficiency, Jingdezhen, China's "porcelain capital," is charting a different path: attracting the world through its centuries-old ceramic culture and a modern vision for urban transformation. The small city in east China's Jiangxi Province took center stage on Sunday as the Global Mayors Dialogue brought together over 350 mayors, officials, artists and business leaders to explore new opportunities for urban development through culture and tourism. Alexander Mudrov, head of the Administration of Gorodets, Russia, highlighted the importance of cultural ties in building international relationships. "Before launching economic projects, we need to have a better understanding of our foreign partners' mindset and cultural background," Mudrov said. "This ensures future cooperation is based on a solid foundation of friendship and good neighborly relations." Ceramic culture has long been an ideal medium for cross-civilization dialogue. As a cornerstone commodity of the ancient Silk Road, Jingdezhen porcelain was a defining cultural symbol through which the world came to know China, and China reached out to the world. Building on this legacy, Jingdezhen has embraced a model of development that combines cultural preservation with creative renewal. Former porcelain factories have been reimagined as cultural and creative districts, old streets are lined with ceramic-themed installations, and historic neighborhoods have been carefully preserved and revitalized. The result is a city that looks both backward and forward -- rooted in its millennia-old craft but open to global artistic exchange. With a population of about 1.6 million, Jingdezhen has established partnership ties with over 180 cities in 72 countries. Its ceramic products reach dozens of countries and regions. Thousands of artists and ceramists from over 50 countries come to create here like migratory birds. During a tour of Jingdezhen, Davide Agresti, a city councilor from Faenza, Italy, was amazed at the city's changes, particularly the transformation of old porcelain factories into lively cultural spaces. "I come from Faenza, also famous for ceramics," said Agresti. "Jingdezhen's ceramic district, for me, is an example of how to do great and big work in such a short time. We will try to do as good as you in Italy." For representatives from Osh, Kyrgyzstan, Jingdezhen's appeal lies in its immersive cultural experiences. "Global tourists can touch the living ceramic history here," said Niyazbek Nurbaev, Deputy Speaker of the City Council of Osh. "We believe porcelain is not only a cultural carrier but also a commodity. Improving logistics, developing online trading, and promoting brand collaborations are practical ways to drive economic growth through art," he said. Mayor Chen Kelong said Jingdezhen attaches great importance to integrating ceramic culture into the city's landscape to shape a unique urban character. In the process of urban renewal and upgrading, policymakers prioritize the protection of cultural heritage. "We protect old kiln sites and traditional neighborhoods as carefully as we protect our own lives," Chen said. "At the same time, we use technology and creativity to breathe new life into ancient ceramics and spark renewed interest." This blending of tradition and innovation has fueled a booming tourism industry. In 2024, Jingdezhen welcomed more than 60 million domestic and foreign visitors. During this year's National Day and Mid-Autumn Festival holiday alone, tourist trips exceeded 9 million, achieving double-digit growth. ■ 