Fall harvest celebrated with various activities in New York-Xinhua A man throws a pumpkin up in the air at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) People hold a baby during a fall festival at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) People gather under a tree during a fall festival at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) A woman with her children attends a fall festival at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) A musician performs during a fall festival at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) People ride during a fall festival at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) A man takes photos during a fall festival at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) Children play among fallen leaves during a fall festival at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) Pumpkins are on display at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) A girl holding a pumpkin walks on a lawn at the Governors Island in New York, the United States, on Oct. 25, 2025. A festival was held at the Governors Island in New York on Saturday, attracting locals and visitors to celebrate the fall harvest with various family-friendly activities. (Xinhua/Zhang Fengguo) 