China, U.S. can complement each other well in agriculture: Chinese ambassador-Xinhua WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng recently said that as the world's most important agricultural producers and consumers, China and the United States each have their own strengths in agriculture and can complement each other well. "China and the U.S. together produce nearly 40 percent of global food and consume one-fourth of the total. China has comparative advantage in labor-intensive agricultural products, while the U.S. specializes in land-intensive agricultural commodities through mechanized, large-scale production," Xie made the remarks at a U.S.-China soybean industry partner breakfast reception in Washington D.C. This event was co-hosted by the U.S. Soybean Export Council and the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Foodstuffs, Native Produce and Animal By-Products, with participation from industry associations, agricultural enterprises, and scholars of both countries. "Agricultural exchanges and cooperation have not only offered more choices for consumers in both our countries, but also put more money in the pockets of American farmers," Xie said. "They have provided impetus for agricultural transformation and upgrading in China and the U.S., and opened up a new path for securing global food security," Xie continued. The Chinese ambassador argued that agriculture should not be politicized, and "farmers should not pay the cost of trade war." "Restricting Chinese citizens and businesses from buying farmland is purely a move of political manipulation on the pretext of national security. It is completely unfounded, and is aimed to hijack China-U.S. agricultural cooperation for a few individuals' own agenda," Xie said. "China is ready to work with the U.S. side to implement the important common understandings of the two leaders, make good use of the economic and trade consultation mechanism, build consensus, clear up misunderstandings and strengthen cooperation, so as to jointly share the dividends of development and return to the right track of win-win cooperation," Xie said. Industry associations and enterprises in both countries serve as a bridge and shoulder a special mission, and need to continue playing a constructive role, Xie said. "I hope more friends will join in, and let's together be 'farmers' who work hard to grow a steady, sound and sustainable China-U.S. relationship," he said. "We need to keep the 'pests' away from bilateral agricultural cooperation, say a loud no to any attempt to politicize trade and economic issues in the name of national security," Xie said. "We also need to sow more 'seeds,' work closely on trade, industry, business and research, and strive to achieve more results in restoring dialogue and cooperation mechanisms in the agricultural area," Xie added. ■ 