Severe flooding affects over 960,000 in South Sudan: UN-Xinhua UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 24 (Xinhua) -- Severe flooding affected more than 960,000 people in six states in South Sudan and displaced some 335,000 people, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said Friday. Since last month, the floods have affected more than 140 health facilities, disrupting access to essential health services for thousands of people at a time when South Sudan grapples with disease outbreaks, including cholera and malaria, the office said. The World Health Organization (WHO) has reported more than 104,000 malaria cases, including 16 deaths, across the country in the past week, marking a 15 percent increase in cases from the previous week, mainly due to the ongoing flooding. OCHA said the flooding is compounding an already dire humanitarian situation in the country, which faces ongoing conflict and acute food insecurity. The office said the United Nations and its humanitarian partners continue to reach flood-affected people with life-saving aid and conduct needs assessments despite significant access challenges in the states of Unity, Jonglei and Upper Nile. The World Food Programme said it is delivering food and nutrition assistance. Meanwhile, the WHO and its partners have delivered more than 50 metric tonnes of medical supplies in Jonglei, Unity and Upper Nile states. Assistance in the pipeline includes tents, cholera kits and emergency health kits. OCHA said that earlier this week, the International Organization for Migration signed an agreement with South Sudanese officials that will see 8.5 million U.S. dollars invested to build flood-resilient infrastructure and rehabilitate drainage channels to protect Bor town of Jonglei state. The UN Population Fund and its partners continue to support the response to gender-based violence through the distribution of dignity kits to women and girls in flood-affected areas and access to essential sexual and reproductive health services, said the office. ■ 