China's wind power project powers South Africa's energy landscape-Xinhua Beacon lights on wind turbines of the De Aar Wind Power Project are seen under the starry sky in De Aar, Northern Cape, South Africa, Oct. 22, 2025. To bolster Africa's green development, China has assisted countries in constructing several clean energy projects. The De Aar Wind Farm has changed South Africa's energy landscape. As the first wind power project financed, constructed and operated by a Chinese company in Africa, it supplies 760 million kilowatt-hours of clean electricity annually, meeting the electricity needs of 300,000 households. The farm has contributed to closing the gap caused by unstable clean energy and addressing the electricity shortage in South Africa. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 22, 2025 shows wind turbines of De Aar Wind Power Project in De Aar, Northern Cape, South Africa. To bolster Africa's green development, China has assisted countries in constructing several clean energy projects. The De Aar Wind Farm has changed South Africa's energy landscape. As the first wind power project financed, constructed and operated by a Chinese company in Africa, it supplies 760 million kilowatt-hours of clean electricity annually, meeting the electricity needs of 300,000 households. The farm has contributed to closing the gap caused by unstable clean energy and addressing the electricity shortage in South Africa. (Xinhua/Han Xu) An aerial photo taken on Oct. 22, 2025 shows a wind turbine of De Aar Wind Power Project in De Aar, Northern Cape, South Africa. To bolster Africa's green development, China has assisted countries in constructing several clean energy projects. The De Aar Wind Farm has changed South Africa's energy landscape. As the first wind power project financed, constructed and operated by a Chinese company in Africa, it supplies 760 million kilowatt-hours of clean electricity annually, meeting the electricity needs of 300,000 households. The farm has contributed to closing the gap caused by unstable clean energy and addressing the electricity shortage in South Africa. (Xinhua/Han Xu) An aerial photo taken on Oct. 22, 2025 shows wind turbines of De Aar Wind Power Project in De Aar, Northern Cape, South Africa. To bolster Africa's green development, China has assisted countries in constructing several clean energy projects. The De Aar Wind Farm has changed South Africa's energy landscape. As the first wind power project financed, constructed and operated by a Chinese company in Africa, it supplies 760 million kilowatt-hours of clean electricity annually, meeting the electricity needs of 300,000 households. The farm has contributed to closing the gap caused by unstable clean energy and addressing the electricity shortage in South Africa. (Xinhua/Han Xu) An aerial photo taken on Oct. 22, 2025 shows a substation and wind turbines of De Aar Wind Power Project in De Aar, Northern Cape, South Africa. To bolster Africa's green development, China has assisted countries in constructing several clean energy projects. The De Aar Wind Farm has changed South Africa's energy landscape. As the first wind power project financed, constructed and operated by a Chinese company in Africa, it supplies 760 million kilowatt-hours of clean electricity annually, meeting the electricity needs of 300,000 households. The farm has contributed to closing the gap caused by unstable clean energy and addressing the electricity shortage in South Africa. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 22, 2025 shows wind turbines of De Aar Wind Power Project in De Aar, Northern Cape, South Africa. To bolster Africa's green development, China has assisted countries in constructing several clean energy projects. The De Aar Wind Farm has changed South Africa's energy landscape. As the first wind power project financed, constructed and operated by a Chinese company in Africa, it supplies 760 million kilowatt-hours of clean electricity annually, meeting the electricity needs of 300,000 households. The farm has contributed to closing the gap caused by unstable clean energy and addressing the electricity shortage in South Africa. (Xinhua/Han Xu) An aerial photo taken on Oct. 22, 2025 shows wind turbines of De Aar Wind Power Project in De Aar, Northern Cape, South Africa. To bolster Africa's green development, China has assisted countries in constructing several clean energy projects. The De Aar Wind Farm has changed South Africa's energy landscape. As the first wind power project financed, constructed and operated by a Chinese company in Africa, it supplies 760 million kilowatt-hours of clean electricity annually, meeting the electricity needs of 300,000 households. The farm has contributed to closing the gap caused by unstable clean energy and addressing the electricity shortage in South Africa. (Xinhua/Han Xu) 