English Premier League match: Everton FC vs. Tottenham Hotspur FC-Xinhua Tottenham Hotspur's Pape Matar Sarr celebrates after scoring the third goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's head coach Thomas Frank celebrates after the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven celebrates after scoring the first goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Referee Craig Pawson (front C) speaks to Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven (front R) before disallowing an Everton equalising goal the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven celebrates after scoring the second goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Everton's goalkeeper Jordan Pickford (2nd R) reacts after Tottenham Hotspur scores the opening goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven (L) celebrates after the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Everton's Norberto Bercique Gomes Betuncal (3rd R) reacts after missing a chance during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's head coach Thomas Frank gestures during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Everton's Jack Grealish walks off the pitch after the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven celebrates after scoring the second goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven (L) celebrates with head coach Thomas Frank after the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Pape Matar Sarr scores the third goal with a header during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Everton's Iliman Ndiaye (L) is challenged by Tottenham Hotspur's Djed Spence during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven (3rd L) scores the second goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven (front) celebrates after the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Micky van de Ven celebrates after scoring the second goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Everton's Jake O'Brien (L, top) scores with a header before the goal is disallowed following a VAR check during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Tottenham Hotspur's Pape Matar Sarr (2nd R) celebrates after scoring the third goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) Referee Craig Pawson (3rd L) signals his intent to view the screen before disallowing an Everton equalising goal during the English Premier League match between Everton FC and Tottenham Hotspur FC in Liverpool, Britain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua) 