Xi inspects manufacturing company in Shanxi-Xinhua Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, has a cordial conversation with workers at the Yangquan Valve Co., Ltd. in Yangquan City, north China's Shanxi Province, July 7, 2025. Xi inspected the company here on Monday. (Xinhua/Yan Yan) YANGQUAN, Shanxi, July 7 (Xinhua) -- Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, on Monday afternoon inspected a valve manufacturing company in Yangquan City, north China's Shanxi Province, where he learned about the province's efforts to promote the transformation and upgrade of industries and high-quality development. At the Yangquan Valve Co., Ltd., Xi inspected the company's production workshop and products display, and had a cordial conversation with workers at the site. ■ Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, is pictured with workers at the Yangquan Valve Co., Ltd. in Yangquan City, north China's Shanxi Province, July 7, 2025. Xi inspected the company here on Monday. (Xinhua/Yan Yan) Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, has a cordial conversation with workers at the Yangquan Valve Co., Ltd. in Yangquan City, north China's Shanxi Province, July 7, 2025. Xi inspected the company here on Monday. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan) Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, inspects the production workshop and products display at the Yangquan Valve Co., Ltd. in Yangquan City, north China's Shanxi Province, July 7, 2025. Xi inspected the company here on Monday. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi) Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, has a cordial conversation with workers at the Yangquan Valve Co., Ltd. in Yangquan City, north China's Shanxi Province, July 7, 2025. Xi inspected the company here on Monday. (Xinhua/Yan Yan) 