Column: China's self-reform and its global relevance-Xinhua by Fucha Qiuyu As a Chinese saying goes, nothing can be accomplished without norms and standards. While some claim that power inevitably corrupts and anti-corruption is merely a disguise for power struggles, the Communist Party of China (CPC) has offered a distinctively Chinese answer to the question by enforcing the eight-point decision on improving Party and government conduct -- a set of internal disciplines popularly known as the eight-point rules. REFORMING ITSELF: WHAT THE CPC HAS DONE Over the past decade and more, guided by the eight-point rules, the CPC has made unrelenting efforts to tackle the Four Malfeasances, namely pointless formalities, bureaucratism, hedonism and extravagance, among party members and government officials. These efforts have targeted abuses such as misuse of public funds for gifting, tourism, dining and unauthorized visits to private clubs, and have in recent years expanded to address new and emerging manifestations of these undesirable practices. The success of these measures has been widely acknowledged. A survey by China's National Bureau of Statistics shows that 96.5 percent of respondents are satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the eight-point rules, and 97.3 percent are pleased with the improvements in party and government conduct as well as social morals. This is the magic of the eight-point rules. While effectively curbing problems like extravagant banquets and misuse of government vehicles, they have elevated the ethos and mores of the CPC as a whole. Many foreign political parties have asked, "How is the CPC able to manage millions of cadres so well?" The answer is simple: not through whirlwind anti-corruption campaigns, but through persistent, nail-driving efforts that instill in party members and government officials a greater sense of responsibility and a higher vigilance against corrupt behaviors. NOT A SLOGAN, BUT A SURVIVAL IMPERATIVE FOR POLITICAL PARTIES Isn't anti-corruption just about holding the corrupt officials to account? Some may ask. When power is left unchecked, even the noblest intentions can go astray. Historically, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union came to power with 200,000 members but lost control when its membership grew to 20 million. A key reason was the expansion of privilege within the party and its growing detachment from the masses -- ultimately leading to its rejection by the people. China's approach, however, is unflinchingly hardcore: anti-corruption is not about "throwing bricks over the wall and hoping for a hit," but about achieving "full coverage with no forbidden zones and zero tolerance." From taking down "tigers" (high-ranking bad apples) and swatting "flies" (low-level corruptors) to reforming itself on all fronts, over the past decade, the CPC has investigated more than 4.5 million cases, and disciplined over 4.8 million individuals. More crucially, the CPC doesn't just treat "illnesses" that have emerged -- it works proactively to prevent them. Through mechanisms such as inspection tours, democratic meetings, and public supervision, officials have been put on alert against potential misconduct. How can a party break free from the historical cycle of rise and fall? Letting the people supervise the government is the first answer of the CPC. After a century of struggle, the CPC has come up with a second answer: self-reform. BEST PRACTICES OF A POLITICAL PARTY Some may wonder: The eight-point rules are about China's domestic affairs. What do they have to do with the world? Here is the relevance: First, they prove that corruption is not an unsolvable problem. While some countries are trapped in a vicious cycle of making grand promises during elections but delivering little afterward, or where rotating political parties simply mean reshuffling interests, the CPC has transformed the fight against corruption from a moral appeal into an institutional practice. Brazilian scholar Jose Roberto Teixeira once remarked that China has shown the world through concrete actions that a ruling party can maintain its vitality through self-purification, rather than wait to be overthrown by the people. Second, the eight-point rules have reshaped the relationship between the ruling party and the people. Since the implementation of the rules, grassroots officials no longer "inspect crops through car windows" during village visits -- they now sit on the edges of fields discussing harvests and incomes with farmers. Public service agencies are no longer difficult to access or navigate -- instead, they offer one-stop or even online services for the people's convenience. This transformation in work style has effectively translated the party's principle of "serving the people" into everyday practice. Lastly, they offer Eastern wisdom for global governance. China has demonstrated through practice that a strong, self-reforming ruling party is more capable of solving real problems. A European observer noted, "We've spent centuries on power checks and balances, only to see partisan bickering delay livelihood improvements. China, with its system of self-supervision, has maintained policy continuity while tackling corruption -- that's worth serious study." Power is not meant to be an enjoyment, but to get things done; governance is not about holding onto power, but about earning and upholding the people's trust. This approach defies certain rigid stereotypes of "party politics." It has proven with tangible results that only a political party willing to comprehensively reform itself and continuously renew itself can stay at the forefront of the times and lead its people toward a better life. Editor's note: The author is an international affairs commentator. He can be reached at zhangdumpling123@gmail.com. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency. 