Interview: Global Leaders' Meeting on Women reaffirms commitment to women's empowerment: S. African minister-Xinhua South African Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth, and Persons with Disabilities Sindisiwe Chikunga speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Johannesburg, South Africa, Oct. 20, 2025. (Xinhua/Bai Ge) JOHANNESBURG, Oct. 21 (Xinhua) -- The Global Leaders' Meeting on Women has reaffirmed the international community's commitment to women's empowerment, South African Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth, and Persons with Disabilities Sindisiwe Chikunga said. "The gathering has shown that nations remain aligned with the principles and program of action adopted 30 years ago," Chikunga told Xinhua in a recent interview in Johannesburg, following her return from the meeting held in Beijing, China, on Oct. 13-14. Marking 30 years since the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, Chikunga emphasized the need to assess progress amid pushbacks on some hard-won gains. She highlighted key takeaways from the event, particularly the role of multilateral institutions in advancing women's rights. She noted that at the conference, China presented four proposals to accelerate the process of women's all-round development, and underscored the importance of supporting the United Nations as the central platform for multilateral decision-making and for setting global standards and recommendations. "The United Nations remains the cornerstone of international cooperation," Chikunga said. "If we were to undermine it -- as some voices have suggested -- the world would lose the very mechanism that unites nations and drives collective progress." On advancing gender equality, Chikunga noted that South Africa could learn from China, especially in technology and skills development. "Through BRICS, we have established a strategic program of cooperation that also covers women's issues," Chikunga said. "China is far ahead in technology, and we believe women must be equipped to use such tools to grow their businesses. They need training, support, and access to technology to produce quality products that can compete in international markets." Chikunga also highlighted lessons from China's promotion of women's entrepreneurship and the potential for expanding market opportunities for women-owned enterprises. Reflecting on South Africa's progress in advancing gender equality over the past three decades, she noted, "Today, about 60 percent of university graduates are women, marking a major shift from the past when women were expected to stay home and care for children instead of pursuing higher education." Welcoming China's initiative to invite 50,000 women worldwide for exchange and training programs, Chikunga said the initiative will enhance skills and expand opportunities, emphasizing that it is open to women from all countries. She sees great potential for collaboration between South Africa and China in advancing women's development. "Gender equality cannot be achieved by women alone. It takes men and women working together, and countries coming together to face challenges and seize opportunities, to build a truly equal and inclusive society," she concluded. ■ South African Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth, and Persons with Disabilities Sindisiwe Chikunga speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Johannesburg, South Africa, Oct. 20, 2025. (Xinhua/Bai Ge) 