Garden of Lights show held in Warsaw, Poland-Xinhua Visitors walk through the entrance of the Garden of Lights at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) Light installations are seen at the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) People visit the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) Light installations are seen at the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) Light installations are seen at the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) People visit the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) People visit the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) Light installations are seen at the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) People visit the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) Light installations are seen at the Garden of Lights show at the Botanical Garden of the Polish Academy of Sciences in suburban Warsaw, Poland, on Oct. 25, 2025. This year's exhibition, themed "Beauty and the Beast," has attracted many residents and tourists. (Photo by Aleksy Witwicki/Xinhua) 