Chinese uranium miner boosts socio-economic growth in Namibia's Erongo region-Xinhua WINDHOEK, Oct. 22 (Xinhua) -- Chinese-invested Swakop Uranium demonstrated its commitment to socio-economic development in the Erongo Region by expanding its long-term national initiative aimed at creating sustainable livelihoods. The Swakop Uranium Foundation held a ceremony on Tuesday evening, marking the commencement of Phase 2 of its Hope Farm Project. The foundation donated 1,008 goats and sheep, valued at three million Namibian dollars (about 173,000 U.S. dollars) to 48 beneficiaries across the region. Launched in July, Phase 1 of the Hope Farm project supported 30 beneficiaries with 630 animals. Phase 2 sees an additional 378 animals donated to 18 new beneficiaries, represented by the Nderurua, Omkhaibasen, and Okongava-Ondjeombaranga cooperatives. China General Nuclear Power Group (CGN) Board Director Li Li said that throughout CGN's partnership with Swakop Uranium, three core aspirations have guided their journey. "First, to build Husab into a world-class green mine; second, to make Husab a model of shared growth and mutual benefit; and third, to establish Husab as a benchmark for cultural integration," she said. According to Li, CGN has strived to be a responsible enterprise. "Over 95 percent of our workforce are Namibian, and nearly 70 percent of our procurement contracts are awarded to local businesses," she said. In addition to the livestock handover, Swakop Uranium also released its 2024 Sustainability Report, themed "Mining for a Sustainable Future," which highlights record performance in production and safety, strengthened environmental systems, and increased community engagement. Deputy Minister of Industries, Mines and Energy Gaudentia Krohne said that uranium is re-emerging as a strategic resource globally as governments seek secure, low-carbon energy sources to combat climate change. "Namibia is proud to stand among the world's leading suppliers of this clean energy fuel," she said, noting that Swakop Uranium's contribution in this regard is significant. "It is through operational excellence, safety leadership, and community partnership that Swakop Uranium demonstrates how mining can advance both national development and global sustainability," she added. Krone commended Swakop Uranium, supported by partners including the China General Nuclear Power Group and Namibia's Epangelo Mining, for demonstrating how its operations, such as the Husab Mine, can advance national development and global sustainability. Swakop Uranium is a joint venture between China General Nuclear Power Corporation and Namibia's state-owned Epangelo Mining Company. ■ 