WWII film "Dongji Rescue" debuts in North America-Xinhua by Xinhua writer Gao Shan LOS ANGELES, Aug. 22 (Xinhua) -- The World War II (WWII) film "Dongji Rescue" was officially released in a number of major cities across North America on Friday. The highly-anticipated film is based on a true story that took place in October 1942, when the Lisbon Maru, a cargo ship requisitioned by the Japanese army to transport more than 1,800 British prisoners of war (POWs) from Hong Kong to Japan, was torpedoed by a U.S. submarine off the Zhoushan Islands in China's Zhejiang Province. Local fishermen from Dongji Island risked their lives to rescue more than 300 of the POWs. Released by Well Go USA Entertainment in Mandarin with English subtitles, the film is being shown in about 70 theaters across dozens of North American cities, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Las Vegas, Chicago, New York, Boston, Toronto and Vancouver. "'Dongji Rescue' is a powerful and deeply moving story of courage, humanity and sacrifice," Doris Pfardrescher, CEO of Well Go USA Entertainment, told Xinhua. "We are honored to bring this remarkable chapter of history to North American audiences, and we believe viewers will be inspired by the bravery and compassion shown by the Dongji fishermen in the face of unimaginable danger." Guillermo Emmanuel Gonzalez, an 82-year-old viewer from Los Angeles who attended a preview screening Thursday night, said the film was a reminder of China's significant but sometimes overlooked contributions during World War II. Noting that the film reminded him of the Doolittle Raiders -- American pilots rescued by Chinese civilians after bombing Japan in 1942, Gonzalez said: "This film helps Western audiences better understand China's role in World War II." This year marks the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. On the main Eastern battlefield, China's resistance efforts were decisive in defeating Japanese fascism and supporting other fronts in Europe and Asia. Directed by Chinese filmmaker Guan Hu, a Cannes award winner, alongside Fei Zhenxiang, the film stars Zhu Yilong, Wu Lei, Ni Ni and British actor William Franklyn-Miller. "Dongji Rescue" opened in China on Aug. 8 and has grossed 360 million yuan (about 50.2 million U.S. dollars), according to Chinese film data platform Maoyan. The film holds a strong audience rating of 9.5 out of 10 from more than 89,000 viewers. ■ 