China's top political advisory body concludes annual session, vowing greater contribution to modernization-Xinhua Chinese President Xi Jinping and other leaders including Li Qiang, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attend the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yan Yan) BEIJING, March 10 (Xinhua) -- China's top political advisory body on Monday concluded its annual session, calling on political advisors to make new and greater contribution to advancing Chinese modernization. Chinese President Xi Jinping and other leaders including Li Qiang, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attended the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. Wang Huning, chairman of the CPPCC National Committee, presided over the meeting. Wang said the session has demonstrated the political strengths of the CPPCC and the vitality of whole-process people's democracy in China. Political advisors have expressed their commitment to further firming up their resolve and confidence in achieving greater success in socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era, Wang added. Wang urged the CPPCC to better fulfill its roles as the most inclusive patriotic united front organization, a key channel for practicing socialist consultative democracy and a specialized consultative body. The CPPCC should keep enhancing its capacity for political consultation, democratic oversight, and participation in and deliberation of state affairs, Wang added. He urged the political advisors to stay united and work harder to advance national rejuvenation through a Chinese path to modernization. Monday's meeting approved four documents: a resolution on the work report of the Standing Committee of the CPPCC National Committee, a resolution on the report on how the proposals from political advisors have been handled since the previous annual session, a report on the examination of new proposals, and a political resolution on the third session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee. ■ The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yue Yuewei) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yue Yuewei) Wang Huning, chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, presides over the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. Wang delivered a speech at the meeting. (Xinhua/Li Xueren) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Li He) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Li He) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Wang Ye) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Gao Jie) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Li He) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Dixiao) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Li He) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Dixiao) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhang Yuwei) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yin Gang) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yin Bogu) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Dixiao) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Wang Ye) The military band of the Chinese People's Liberation Army performs at the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhang Yuwei) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Gao Jie) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Wang Ye) Journalists work at the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhang Yuwei) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhang Yuwei) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yin Bogu) The closing meeting of the third session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Yan Yan) Members of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) leave the Great Hall of the People after the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Jin Liangkuai) Members of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) leave the Great Hall of the People after the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Jin Liangkuai) Members of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) leave the Great Hall of the People after the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Jin Liangkuai) Members of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) leave the Great Hall of the People after the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Cai Yang) Members of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) leave the Great Hall of the People after the closing meeting of the third session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee in Beijing, capital of China, March 10, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhou Dixiao) 