NBA: Chicago Bulls vs. Atlanta Hawks-Xinhua Onyeka Okongwu (top L) and Jalen Johnson (1st R) of Atlanta Hawks battle for a rebound with Julian Phillips (2nd R) of Chicago Bulls during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Onyeka Okongwu (L) of Atlanta Hawks defends Nikola Vucevic of Chicago Bulls during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Ayo Dosunmu of Chicago Bulls tries to pass the ball during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Kristaps Porzingis of Atlanta Hawks dunks during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Josh Giddey (L) of Chicago Bulls shoots during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Tre Jones (front) of Chicago Bulls breaks through during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Jalen Johnson (L) of Atlanta Hawks goes for a lay-up past Matas Buzelis of Chicago Bulls during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Kevin Huerter (R) of Chicago Bulls dribbles the ball during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Josh Giddey (L) of Chicago Bulls goes for a lay-up during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Tre Jones (C) of Chicago Bulls goes for a lay-up during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) Isaac Okoro (R) of Chicago Bulls and Kristaps Porzingis of Atlanta Hawks fight for the ball during the NBA regular season basketball game between Chicago Bulls and Atlanta Hawks at United Center in Chicago, the United States, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Joel Lerner/Xinhua) 