Belinda Bencic of Switzerland wins women's singles final at Pan Pacific Open in Tokyo-Xinhua Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic poses during the awarding ceremony after the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Belinda Bencic (R) of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic pose during the awarding ceremony after the women's singles final match at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic hits a return during the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Belinda Bencic of Switzerland celebrates during the awarding ceremony after the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic hits a return during the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Belinda Bencic of Switzerland celebrates victory after winning the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Belinda Bencic of Switzerland hits a return during the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Belinda Bencic of Switzerland celebrates victory after winning the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Belinda Bencic of Switzerland hits a return during the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) Belinda Bencic of Switzerland celebrates victory after winning the women's singles final match between Belinda Bencic of Switzerland and Linda Noskova of the Czech Republic at the Pan Pacific Open tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Xinhua/Jia Haocheng) 