China-Laos Railway launches two-way operations of int'l freight train service between Yuxi and Vientiane-Xinhua An international freight train bound for Lao capital Vientiane prepares to depart from Yanhe Station of China-Laos Railway in Yuxi City, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Aug. 23, 2025. The China-Laos Railway launched two-way operations of the international freight train service between Yuxi and Vientiane on Saturday. Since its inauguration in December 2021, the China-Laos Railway has transported over 64.5 million tonnes of goods by the end of July this year, including more than 14.9 million tonnes of cross-border cargo. (Xinhua/Chen Xinbo) An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 23, 2025 shows an international freight train, which departed from Lao capital Vientiane, at Yanhe Station of China-Laos Railway in Yuxi City, southwest China's Yunnan Province. The China-Laos Railway launched two-way operations of the international freight train service between Yuxi and Vientiane on Saturday. Since its inauguration in December 2021, the China-Laos Railway has transported over 64.5 million tonnes of goods by the end of July this year, including more than 14.9 million tonnes of cross-border cargo. (Xinhua/Chen Xinbo) This combo aerial photo taken on Aug. 23, 2025 shows an international freight train bound for Lao capital Vientiane preparing to depart from Yanhe Station of China-Laos Railway (upper) and an international freight train, which departed from Vientiane, arriving at Yanhe Station of China-Laos Railway (lower) in Yuxi City, southwest China's Yunnan Province. The China-Laos Railway launched two-way operations of the international freight train service between Yuxi and Vientiane on Saturday. Since its inauguration in December 2021, the China-Laos Railway has transported over 64.5 million tonnes of goods by the end of July this year, including more than 14.9 million tonnes of cross-border cargo. (Xinhua/Chen Xinbo) An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 23, 2025 shows an international freight train bound for Lao capital Vientiane departing from Yanhe Station of China-Laos Railway in Yuxi City, southwest China's Yunnan Province. The China-Laos Railway launched two-way operations of the international freight train service between Yuxi and Vientiane on Saturday. Since its inauguration in December 2021, the China-Laos Railway has transported over 64.5 million tonnes of goods by the end of July this year, including more than 14.9 million tonnes of cross-border cargo. (Xinhua/Chen Xinbo) An international freight train bound for Lao capital Vientiane pulls out of Yanhe Station of China-Laos Railway in Yuxi City, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Aug. 23, 2025. The China-Laos Railway launched two-way operations of the international freight train service between Yuxi and Vientiane on Saturday. Since its inauguration in December 2021, the China-Laos Railway has transported over 64.5 million tonnes of goods by the end of July this year, including more than 14.9 million tonnes of cross-border cargo. (Xinhua/Chen Xinbo) 