Laos strives to enhance education for better future-Xinhua Students play at Phiawath School, in Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) VIENTIANE, Oct. 23 (Xinhua) -- The Lao government has been intensifying efforts to improve quality and equity of education nationwide, while people believed the younger generation will gain access to inclusive opportunities and enjoy a promising future through improved education. The Lao government has prioritized education as a key driver of human resource development, working to address challenges and ensure access to quality, equitable education for both urban and rural communities. Sengsavanh, a teacher in Savannakhet province, recalled her time as a volunteer delivering books to children in rural schools. She said that many lacked basic resources, such as teachers and educational materials, which hindered their ability to learn in a quality environment. "I understand that many poor families can't afford schooling, and children miss opportunities because they don't fully grasp the value of education. That's why I strongly support the government's efforts to improve education across Laos, ensuring more children can access quality learning, regardless of their background," Sengsavanh told Xinhua on Thursday. However, the government should also help parents in all communities understand how education can lead to a better future for their children, she added. Speaking about her role as a teacher, Sengsavanh said that she strives to make learning enjoyable and inspiring, helping students see education a pathway to their dreams. She also worked closely with parents to emphasize the importance of supporting their children's education at home. Laos has been working to overcome barriers preventing disadvantaged communities from accessing quality education, amid challenges like teacher shortages, high dropout rates, and limited resources worsened by economic strains and natural disasters. For Alounny, a student in Vientiane, she has endorsed the government's efforts and initiatives to improve education, believing it is the foundation for the country's growth and development. She said that education is a powerful tool that empowers individuals to achieve true prosperity. Alounny hopes that Laos will soon be home to a generation of educated and skilled citizens who can contribute to the country's future. Sammy, a father of a three-year-old girl, hoped to see quality education not only for his own child but also for all children in Laos. He said that every child should have access to at least a basic education, as he believed it is essential for building a strong foundation in life. Monekham, from Vientiane province, said that education is crucial for success. She was optimistic that with continued government efforts and support from families, Laos can look forward to a bright future filled with educated and skilled citizens. The Lao government has been developing plans and strategies to improve education, enhance teacher skills, and integrate artificial intelligence into the sector. To address teacher shortages and reduce dropout rates in remote areas, the government will deploy volunteer soldier-teachers to underserved regions. ■ A motorbike passes by the Ministry of Education and Sports in Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) Students play at Phiawath School, in Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) Students excercise at Phiawath School, in Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) Students play at Phiawath School, in Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) Students study in the classroom at Faculty of Law and Political Science National University of Laos, in Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) Students walk at the University of Health Sciences, in Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) 