Scientists find potential dual-action drug for diabetes, heart disease-Xinhua MELBOURNE, Oct. 28 (Xinhua) -- An international study involving Australian scientists has identified a potential new drug that may protect against both type 2 diabetes and heart disease by lowering cholesterol and reducing inflammation. The experimental drug "IC7Fc" was found to significantly lower the amount of fat (triglycerides) and cholesterol in the blood of mice prone to heart disease, according to a statement released Tuesday by Australia's Monash University. It does this by reducing the build-up of fatty plaques in blood vessels and lowering inflammation, both of which can lead to heart attacks and strokes, said the study led by Leiden University Medical Center in the Netherlands with researchers from Monash University in Australia and other institutions. Building on earlier studies showing its benefits for type 2 diabetes, a metabolic disease, this new research shows it can also reduce atherosclerosis, meaning it slows the "clogging" of the arteries, where fatty deposits build up and restrict blood flow to the heart, said Professor Mark Febbraio, who led the research on behalf of the Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences. "Heart disease remains the world's biggest killer, driven largely by atherosclerosis. Even with common treatments that lower blood pressure and cholesterol, many people are still at risk, showing there's more work to do," said Febbraio, who has been central to the team behind the discovery and years-long exploration into IC7Fc as a promising novel treatment for metabolic diseases. Previous research found IC7Fc reduced appetite and body fat in obese mice, but in lean mice prone to high cholesterol and artery disease, it did not affect body weight or food intake, suggesting IC7Fc's heart-protective benefits, like reducing cholesterol buildup in arteries, could still help lean individuals, researchers said. The study, published in Science Advances, suggests IC7Fc could offer a dual benefit, "helping reduce obesity in some, while protecting the heart in others," Febbraio said. "It's an exciting step towards a treatment that targets both metabolic and cardiovascular disease," he said, highlighting IC7Fc's potential as a versatile treatment and pointing to the need for further human trials. ■ 