Column: On America's watch: World order fractured, future captured-Xinhua by Xin Ping The post-WWII order has been severely pounded by its key architect -- the United States. The flurry of unhinged policies rolled out by Washington is the main cause. THE ONE WHO CREATES AND DESTROYS The most glaring blow to the existing world order comes from the recent oscillation of U.S. tariff policy. The so-called reciprocal tariffs have assaulted America's allies and competitors, as well as the WTO-centered multilateral trading system. The WTO traces its origin to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), established on the basis of a U.S. draft that aimed to drag the post-war economy out of the gutter. But today, when the world economy is again struggling for recovery, Washington is turning its back and violating one of WTO/GATT's very core principles, the most-favored-nation treatment, which implies that all contracting countries, big or small, strong or weak, shall be extended the same treatment in trade. The U.S. discriminatory treatment -- "reciprocal" tariffs on other countries -- is a self-evident and blatant violation. Other fundamental principles are also disdained by the United States. When it comes to freedom of transit, Article Five of GATT stipulates that "No distinction shall be made which is based on the flag of vessels, the place of origin, departure, entry ... of vessels or of other means of transport." Obviously, U.S. levies on Chinese-owned, operated, or built ships docking at its ports demonstrate its discriminatory practice targeting China and its contempt for the GATT. Even before dropping the bombshell of sweeping tariff levies, America's moves had invited questions about its commitment to the current world order. Its withdrawal from WHO cripples global health efforts and the sharing of critical data and expertise. Its retreat from the Paris Agreement dents humanity's confidence in the global climate efforts. All these are putting its own short-term interests above everything else, and tearing down the edifice of a world order that was once preached by the United States. TIME TO CHANGE The current world order was designed to place the West in a better position to enjoy peace and security. Ironically, today it appears that the Global South countries are more interested in peace, security and prosperity than antagonism, intimidation and coercion. They are speaking up for a more just and equitable world order that rejects double standards and embraces inclusiveness through groupings such as BRICS, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), and the Group of 77. For example, the SCO's counterterrorism campaign to keep Central Asia peaceful is totally different from AUKUS' "cooperation" on naval nuclear propulsion that threatens security and stability in the Pacific. As the U.S.-led tariff tsunami drowns global trade and unilateral measures destabilize the world order, nations worldwide face growing uncertainty. Rather than clinging to zero-sum policies, the United States must change course and collaborate with the Global South to build a fairer, more inclusive world. This is not just an economic imperative but a moral one, for the benefit of all humanity. Editor's note: Xin Ping is a commentator on international affairs, writing regularly for Xinhua News Agency, Global Times, China Daily, CGTN, etc. He can be reached at xinping604@gmail.com. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the positions of Xinhua News Agency. 