Activities held across China to mark Chongyang Festival-Xinhua Volunteers make dumplings together with elderly people in Gaobei Village of Shibing County, Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Oct. 27, 2025. A series of activities were held across the country to mark China's Chongyang Festival, which will fall on Oct. 29 this year. Also known as Seniors' Day in China nowadays, it highlights the public's care for elderly people. (Photo by Tai Shengzhi/Xinhua) Volunteers chat with elderly people at a nursing home in Zhanggezhuang Village of Zunhua City, north China's Hebei Province, Oct. 28, 2025. A series of activities were held across the country to mark China's Chongyang Festival, which will fall on Oct. 29 this year. Also known as Seniors' Day in China nowadays, it highlights the public's care for elderly people. (Photo by Liu Mancang/Xinhua) Volunteers hand a piece of cake to an elderly woman at a nursing home in Chengguan Town of Luoyang, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 28, 2025. A series of activities were held across the country to mark China's Chongyang Festival, which will fall on Oct. 29 this year. Also known as Seniors' Day in China nowadays, it highlights the public's care for elderly people. (Photo by Kang Hongjun/Xinhua) Volunteers perform together with elderly people at a welfare house in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 28, 2025. A series of activities were held across the country to mark China's Chongyang Festival, which will fall on Oct. 29 this year. Also known as Seniors' Day in China nowadays, it highlights the public's care for elderly people. (Photo by Zhang Ying/Xinhua) A staff member helps an elderly woman put on a pair of donated shoes in Baimiao Village, Zhumadian City, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 28, 2025. A series of activities were held across the country to mark China's Chongyang Festival, which will fall on Oct. 29 this year. Also known as Seniors' Day in China nowadays, it highlights the public's care for elderly people. (Photo by Zhao Yongtao/Xinhua) Children from a kindergarten make sweets together with elderly people in Qinyang City, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 28, 2025. A series of activities were held across the country to mark China's Chongyang Festival, which will fall on Oct. 29 this year. Also known as Seniors' Day in China nowadays, it highlights the public's care for elderly people. (Photo by Zhang Xinyu/Xinhua) 