Botswana calls for youth, local communities to seize mining opportunities, diversify economy-Xinhua Botswana's Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Noah Salakae speaks at the opening of the Botswana Mining Show in Gaborone, Botswana, Oct. 21, 2025. (Photo by Tshekiso Tebalo/Xinhua) GABORONE, Oct. 21 (Xinhua) -- The government of Botswana and financial institutions on Tuesday called on the country's youth and local communities to actively pursue partnerships and financing opportunities to participate in the mining sector and help shape the southern African country's future. Delivering a keynote address on behalf of President Duma Boko at the opening of the Botswana Mining Show, Minister for State President Moeti Mohwasa highlighted the government's vision of building a self-reliant and diversified mining economy, spanning from extraction to value-added transformation. He outlined Botswana's bold shift from being a primary exporter of raw minerals to a regional leader in exploration, mineral beneficiation, and sustainable industrial growth, emphasizing the role of technology, innovation, data, and a digital-enabled economy. Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Noah Salakae noted that Botswana's mineral wealth extends far beyond diamonds, pointing to untapped resources including coal, copper, nickel, gold, silver, manganese, uranium, iron ore, and rare earth elements. "These resources are vital for the global shift toward renewable energy and advanced technology," Salakae said. He described Botswana's minerals not merely as export commodities but as "keys to industrial transformation," urging the country to position itself as a regional hub for responsible, diversified mining and local beneficiation. He encouraged citizens to explore partnerships, financing, and technical support to operationalize their mining or exploration licenses, specifically through engagement with banks and financial institutions to "explore creative funding options and joint ventures." The government reiterated its commitment to promoting investment in the exploration and development of non-diamond minerals, aiming to broaden the country's economic base and reduce dependence on diamond exports. The three-day Botswana Mining Show is expected to attract around 10,000 participants, including ministers, business leaders, entrepreneurs, financiers, small-scale miners, and students. ■ Botswana's Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Noah Salakae speaks at the opening of the Botswana Mining Show in Gaborone, Botswana, Oct. 21, 2025. (Photo by Tshekiso Tebalo/Xinhua) 