In pics: dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach in Vladivostok-Xinhua A dog participates in a ring-jumping game during a dog carnival in Vladivostok, Russia, Oct. 12, 2025. The Russian city of Vladivostok held a dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach on Sunday, featuring pet skill shows, a costume show, and fun competitions. The event attracted many residents to take part with their pet dogs. (Photo by Guo Feizhou/Xinhua) A woman and her dog participate in a costume show during a dog carnival in Vladivostok, Russia, Oct. 12, 2025. The Russian city of Vladivostok held a dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach on Sunday, featuring pet skill shows, a costume show, and fun competitions. The event attracted many residents to take part with their pet dogs. (Photo by Guo Feizhou/Xinhua) A dog and its owner participate in a costume show during a dog carnival in Vladivostok, Russia, Oct. 12, 2025. The Russian city of Vladivostok held a dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach on Sunday, featuring pet skill shows, a costume show, and fun competitions. The event attracted many residents to take part with their pet dogs. (Photo by Guo Feizhou/Xinhua) A dog participates in an obstacle course during a dog carnival in Vladivostok, Russia, Oct. 12, 2025. The Russian city of Vladivostok held a dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach on Sunday, featuring pet skill shows, a costume show, and fun competitions. The event attracted many residents to take part with their pet dogs. (Photo by Guo Feizhou/Xinhua) A mother and a daughter present a painting with a dog during a dog carnival in Vladivostok, Russia, Oct. 12, 2025. The Russian city of Vladivostok held a dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach on Sunday, featuring pet skill shows, a costume show, and fun competitions. The event attracted many residents to take part with their pet dogs. (Photo by Guo Feizhou/Xinhua) A man is pictured with his dog during a dog carnival in Vladivostok, Russia, Oct. 12, 2025. The Russian city of Vladivostok held a dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach on Sunday, featuring pet skill shows, a costume show, and fun competitions. The event attracted many residents to take part with their pet dogs. (Photo by Guo Feizhou/Xinhua) Dogs participate in a hurdle race during a dog carnival in Vladivostok, Russia, Oct. 12, 2025. The Russian city of Vladivostok held a dog carnival at Akhlyostyshev Beach on Sunday, featuring pet skill shows, a costume show, and fun competitions. The event attracted many residents to take part with their pet dogs. (Photo by Guo Feizhou/Xinhua) 