Xi meets president of Iceland-Xinhua Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with President of Iceland Halla Tomasdottir, who is in Beijing for the Global Leaders' Meeting on Women, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 14, 2025. (Xinhua/Li Xiang) BEIJING, Oct. 14 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday met with President of Iceland Halla Tomasdottir, who is in Beijing for the Global Leaders' Meeting on Women. Xi said the fruitful outcomes of the bilateral relationship between China and Iceland over the past 54 years have demonstrated that countries with different national conditions can transcend differences in social systems and achieve mutual benefits and win-win results. The two countries should continue to respect and support each other's paths of development, and firmly back one another on issues concerning their respective core interests and major concerns, Xi noted. He called on both sides to deepen practical cooperation in areas including the economy, trade, geothermal energy, and healthcare, while advancing the green transition and addressing climate change. The two countries should maintain close communication and coordination, work together to resolve international disputes through dialogues and consultations, and promote a more just and equitable global governance system, Xi said. Tomasdottir said that Iceland highly values China's significant contributions to the advancement of women's cause worldwide and is willing to strengthen communication and cooperation with China to promote the all-round development of women globally. In the face of a turbulent world, China has demonstrated leadership in addressing global challenges, Tomasdottir said, adding that Iceland is ready to work with China to tackle these challenges. The two sides issued a joint statement on further strengthening cooperation on geothermal energy and green transition. Wang Yi attended the meeting. ■ Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with President of Iceland Halla Tomasdottir, who is in Beijing for the Global Leaders' Meeting on Women, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 14, 2025. (Xinhua/Shen Hong) 