Interview: Global Governance Initiative injects stability into uncertain world, Pakistani expert says-Xinhua TIANJIN, Sept. 20 (Xinhua) -- The Global Governance Initiative (GGI) brings stability, tolerance, peace and inclusivity in a world that is unstable, unpredictable and intolerant, said Zafar-Ud-Din Mahmood, former special assistant to the prime minister of Pakistan. At the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) summit held earlier this month in north China's Tianjin Municipality, China proposed the GGI and called on countries to work in concert for a more just and equitable global governance system. Five principles of the GGI were highlighted -- adhering to sovereign equality, abiding by the international rule of law, practicing multilateralism, advocating a people-centered approach to governance, and focusing on taking real actions. This GGI is the fourth landmark global initiative China has proposed in recent years, following the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative. "The world is recently witnessing disrespect and serious violations of international norms and relevant laws," Mahmood said in an interview with Xinhua. There is an immediate need to redefine the global governance system, which is based on mutual trust, respect and inclusivity, he added. In Mahmood's view, since the SCO was established, it has gained the trust of not only its member states, observer states and dialogue partners, but also the broader international community. This widespread credibility stems from the bloc's commitment and sincerity to its cause, based on the principles of inclusivity and mutual respect. Although the Global South is on the rise, its development remains uneven, and its voice and aspirations are still not fully reflected in the current international governance system, he noted. Under the guidance of the SCO cooperation mechanism, countries in the Global South are becoming increasingly confident. The SCO's aims -- promoting the democratization of the international governance system and providing broader momentum for economic globalization without seeking confrontation or replacing any party -- are gaining acceptance globally, which is proof of the success of SCO initiatives, Mahmood said. He stressed that a current lack of mutual trust and respect, coupled with violations of international law by certain countries, makes the improvement of the global governance system both urgent and essential. In his view, China is an "action-oriented" supporter of the global development cause. "All plans and initiatives proposed by China have been translated into tangible actions within a short period of time," he said, noting that the New Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank are evidence of China's commitment to and wholehearted support for inclusive development. Speaking on China's role in improving the global governance system, Mahmood said that China's governance system and development model have -- through various initiatives -- offered an alternate road to peace, stability and comprehensive economic development, and set an example for inclusive multilateralism. This has helped in injecting stability into an international situation marked by turbulence, uncertainty and unpredictability, and has significantly enhanced the voice and influence of developing countries in international affairs, he said. ■ 