Real Madrid wins Clasico, Rayo and Celta also triumph in La Liga-Xinhua Eduardo Camavinga (R) of Real Madrid vies with Alex Balde of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) MADRID, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- Real Madrid moved five points clear at the top of La Liga with a 2-1 home win over FC Barcelona on Sunday. First-half goals from Kylian Mbappe and Jude Bellingham secured the victory, while Fermin Lopez scored for Barcelona. Barcelona argued for a foul for a possible elbow by Dean Huijsen in the buildup before Bellingham tapped in the winner, but Mbappe had a chance to make the result more secure when his second-half penalty was saved. Barcelona struggled to create chances without Raphinha and Robert Lewandowski, and with Lamine Yamal below his best. Pedri was sent off for two yellow cards in stoppage time. Rayo Vallecano also took three points with a 1-0 home win over Deportivo Alaves thanks to Alemao's diving header in the first minute of added time. Celta claimed its first win of the season with a 3-2 victory away to Osasuna, with Ferran Jutgla scoring twice for Celta and Ante Budimir netting twice for Osasuna. Budimir had a chance to put Osasuna 3-2 up in the 78th minute but hit his penalty against the bar. Pablo Duran scored Celta's winner after a pass from Iago Aspas in the 87th minute. Mallorca and Levante drew 1-1, with Etta Eyong extending his scoring run for Levante and Pablo Maffeo equalizing for Mallorca in the 79th minute. ■ Dean Huijsen (front L) of Real Madrid vies with Eric Garcia of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Jude Bellingham (R) of Real Madrid scores during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Real Madrid's goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois celebrates his team's goal during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Jude Bellingham (C) of Real Madrid vies with Eric Garcia of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Vinicius Junior (L) of Real Madrid celebrates a goal during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Kylian Mbappe (L) of Real Madrid vies with Alex Balde of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Alvaro Carreras (L) of Real Madrid vies with Fermin Lopez of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Vinicius Junior (R) of Real Madrid vies with Pedri of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Kylian Mbappe (L) and Jude Bellingham (R) of Real Madrid celebrate a goal during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Starting players of Real Madrid pose for a group photo before during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Aurelien Tchouameni (C) of Real Madrid vies with Eric Garcia of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Kylian Mbappe (C) of Real Madrid celebrates with teammates after scoring during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) Alvaro Carreras (R) of Real Madrid vies with Lamine Yamal of Barcelona during the La Liga football match between Real Madrid and FC Barcelona at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 26, 2025. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua) 