China Focus: China honors first Commemoration Day of Taiwan's Restoration-Xinhua BEIJING, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- A reception was held Saturday at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing to mark the inaugural Commemoration Day of Taiwan's Restoration. The event followed a decision by China's national legislature to designate Oct. 25 as the commemoration day. The decision, adopted on Friday by the Standing Committee of the 14th National People's Congress, stipulates that the state will hold commemorative activities in various forms on this day. Attendees included guests from various sectors of Taiwan and representatives from relevant departments of the mainland, who earlier participated in a meeting marking the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration to China on Saturday. The reception was organized by the Taiwan Work Office of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council. Speaking at the reception, Song Tao, head of both the offices, noted that establishing the commemoration day on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's restoration fully reflects the aspiration of the people and the determination of the nation. He stressed that this move constitutes an important measure to remember history and pay tribute to fallen heroes, a strong action to uphold the one-China principle and counter "Taiwan independence" separatist activities and external interference, and a concrete step to firmly support patriots advocating national reunification. Chi Hsing, publisher of The Observer, a magazine in Taiwan, remarked that designating the commemoration day resonates with the shared aspirations of the overwhelming majority of Taiwan compatriots. She further noted that the move will rekindle shared memories among compatriots across the Taiwan Strait, inspire Taiwan compatriots to bear history in mind, carry forward the patriotic tradition, and strive for national reunification and rejuvenation, she added. Attendees from Taiwan at the event shared the view that establishing the commemoration day is both timely and highly significant. They stressed that this move will inspire all Chinese, especially Taiwan compatriots, to deepen their understanding that both sides of the Taiwan Strait belong to one and the same China and that people on both sides share a common Chinese identity, thereby further strengthening their resolve to oppose "Taiwan independence" separatist activities and external interference. After the reception, the guests from Taiwan visited an exhibition showcasing Taiwan people's resistance efforts against Japanese aggression at the Museum of the War of Chinese People's Resistance Against Japanese Aggression in Beijing. In 1894, Japan initiated a war against China and then occupied Taiwan. On Oct. 25, 1945, the ceremony to accept Japan's surrender in the Taiwan Province of the China war theater of the Allied powers was held in Taipei. From that point on, Taiwan and the Penghu Islands returned to China's sovereign jurisdiction. ■ 