Chinese technology takes center stage at Ghana's transport, logistics fair-Xinhua Exhibitors display Chinese electric vehicles at the Ghana Transport and Logistics Fair in Accra, Ghana, on Oct. 23, 2025. The maiden Ghana Transport and Logistics Fair concluded in Accra on Friday, with Chinese technology taking center stage. Hybrid vehicles featuring combined electric and combustion technologies from some of China's leading automakers, including Chery and Great Wall Motors (GWM), were showcased to the delight of Ghanaian customers. (Photo by Seth/Xinhua) by Justice Lee Adoboe ACCRA, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- The maiden Ghana Transport and Logistics Fair concluded in Accra, the capital, on Friday, with Chinese technology taking center stage. Hybrid vehicles featuring combined electric and combustion technologies from some of China's leading automakers, including Chery and Great Wall Motors (GWM), were showcased to the delight of Ghanaian customers. Zonda Tec Ghana Limited, a Chinese automobile distributor in Ghana, displayed GWM's hybrid models alongside other hybrid vehicles during the exhibition. Zhang Hongye, sales director for light vehicles at Zonda, told Xinhua that as technology continues to evolve, it is essential to meet customers' changing needs. "These hybrid cars can save you 30 to 40 percent in fuel consumption. It literally means that every month you can save at least 1,000 Ghana cedis on fuel," Zhang said. According to her, customers have the flexibility to switch from the electric vehicle (EV) system when the battery runs low to the traditional combustion system during long journeys. The new brands are gaining popularity in the Ghanaian market, as their flexibility and affordability, combined with low fuel consumption, give customers their ideal options, she added. J.A. Plantpool Limited, a Ghanaian auto company that distributes Chery vehicles from China, also displayed the new Soueast models, the latest hybrids from the Chinese automaker. Abraham Dogbey, sales executive at J.A. Plantpool, said the advantage of the Chery hybrid models is that their EV systems can be charged manually. Even when the engine is down, it can charge from external power sources, he noted. Opening the three-day exhibition, Ghanaian President John Dramani Mahama said transport is the "lifeblood of every economy," connecting people to opportunities, driving innovation and fueling inclusive national development. Mahama said his government is working to decarbonize the transport sector, expand electric mobility infrastructure, and promote climate-smart investments that lower emissions and protect the environment. He added that with enhanced port efficiency, modern rail connectivity, expanded airport infrastructure, efficient road transport and digital logistics systems, Ghana will position itself as the gateway for efficient trade and the movement of goods and services across West Africa. Transport Minister Joseph Bukari Nikpe said that the government has implemented programs to renew the fleet of state-run public bus companies, with the aim of expanding services and driving sector decarbonization through the introduction of more electric buses to enhance fleet efficiency. The three-day exhibition served as a strategic platform for showcasing technological innovations, attracting investments and fostering collaboration toward building an integrated transport and logistics system. ■ A visitor views an electric vehicle during the Ghana Transport and Logistics Fair in Accra, Ghana, on Oct. 23, 2025. The maiden Ghana Transport and Logistics Fair concluded in Accra on Friday, with Chinese technology taking center stage. Hybrid vehicles featuring combined electric and combustion technologies from some of China's leading automakers, including Chery and Great Wall Motors (GWM), were showcased to the delight of Ghanaian customers. (Photo by Seth/Xinhua) 