Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passes away at age 93-Xinhua A woman mourns for Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 25, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) BANGKOK, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. The bureau stated in an official announcement that a team of doctors, who have been overseeing and providing treatment for the Queen Mother's health at the hospital since Sept. 7, 2019, identified that she was suffering from several illnesses and abnormalities across multiple bodily systems, necessitating continuous medical attention. According to physicians, the Queen Mother contracted a bloodstream infection on Oct. 17, 2025. Despite the physicians' efforts to provide treatment, her condition gradually deteriorated, and she passed away peacefully at 9:21 p.m. on Friday at the age of 93. Thailand's King Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajiraklaochaoyuhua has directed the relevant bureau to make arrangements for the Queen Mother's royal funeral, which will be held with the highest honors in accordance with royal traditions. Her remains will be enshrined at the Dusit Maha Prasat Throne Hall, located within the Grand Palace in Bangkok. The king has also issued a decree establishing a one-year mourning period. This period shall apply to members of the Royal Family and officials of the Royal Court, starting from the date of the Queen Mother's passing. ■ People mourn for Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 25, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) People mourn for Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 25, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) People mourn for Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 25, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) People mourn for Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 25, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) People mourn for Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 26, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) People mourn for Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 26, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) The hearse carrying the late Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passes by mourners at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, Oct. 26, 2025. Thailand's Queen Mother Sirikit passed away on Friday at the age of 93, the Bureau of the Royal Household announced. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) 