Interview: China's economic path inspirational for Global South, says Zimbabwean expert-Xinhua HARARE, Oct. 21 (Xinhua) -- China's economic path over the past years has offered valuable insights for Global South countries to cope with global challenges, a Zimbabwean expert has said. China has made remarkable progress in socioeconomic development through the implementation of its 14th Five-Year Plan, injecting stability into the global economy, said Munetsi Madakufamba, executive director of the Southern African Research and Documentation Center, a Zimbabwe-based think tank, in a recent written interview with Xinhua. China's economic path has been marked by resilience and transformation, with forecasts indicating robust growth in 2025 -- cementing its role as a key anchor of global stability despite worldwide headwinds, he said. "A cornerstone of China's approach is its commitment to green development, evident in the development of renewable energy sectors like electric vehicles, solar and wind power," Madakufamba noted. For decades, China has utilized consecutive five-year plans to guide its development, establishing itself as one of the largest economies committed to long-term strategic planning, and setting a strong example for the Global South, he added. Madakufamba said China's vision of building a community with a shared future for humanity resonates in China's diplomatic and economic outreach, particularly with Global South nations. "Initiatives such as the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation highlight China's commitment to mutual understanding, co-creation and co-benefits," he stressed. Similarly, the Belt and Road Initiative exemplifies the country's proactive engagement in international cooperation, which has been critical to developing new and expansive infrastructure projects across the African continent, Madakufamba said. He added that China's commitment to enhancing cooperation with Global South countries demonstrates its willingness to jointly tackle current development challenges amid global uncertainty through a win-win approach, creating immense synergies for countries such as Zimbabwe, which aspires to attain the middle-income status by 2030. The expert commended Chinese investment in Zimbabwe, saying that China is leveraging capital, technology and expertise to help unlock Zimbabwe's vast economic potential and advance its development goals. "The fourth plenary session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China is therefore a moment that holds significant implications not only for China, but also for partners like Zimbabwe that are seeking pathways to sustainable development," Madakufamba said. He expressed confidence that during China's next Five-Year Plan period (2026 to 2030), there will be closer cooperation between China and other Global South countries, as China will continue to serve as a proactive and stable force in global development. ■ 