City view of Cape Town in South Africa-Xinhua This photo taken on Oct. 20, 2025 shows a street view in Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 20, 2025 shows the Cape Wheel in Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 20, 2025 shows a street view at V&A Waterfront in Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) People rest by the street in Cape Town, South Africa, on Oct. 20, 2025. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) People relax in Cape Town, South Africa, on Oct. 20, 2025. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) People enjoy leisure time in Cape Town, South Africa, Oct. 19, 2025. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) People enjoy leisure time on the beach in Cape Town, South Africa, Oct. 19, 2025. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 24, 2025 shows the Cape Town City Hall in Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 24, 2025 shows a street view in Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 20, 2025 shows a view of V&A Waterfront in Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 19, 2025 shows a seaside scenery and a view of the Twelve Apostles in Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) This photo taken on Oct. 20, 2025 shows a city view of Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town, the legislative capital of South Africa and the seat of its Parliament, is renown for its spectacular natural scenery and rich cultural diversity. (Xinhua/Han Xu) 