Laos aims to advance AI integration in legal field-Xinhua Students from the National University of Laos participate in an exchange event aimed to promote the integration of artificial intelligence (AI) with the legal industry in Vientiane, capital of Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) VIENTIANE, Oct. 27 (Xinhua) -- An exchange event was held in the Lao capital Vientiane recently to promote the integration of artificial intelligence (AI) with the legal industry, enhance Laos and China cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, and advance the development of a digital landscape for the China-Laos community with a shared future. In his speech, Somdeth Keovongsack, dean of the Faculty of Law and Political Science of the National University of Laos, emphasized that the application of AI in legal practice and education has become a vital force in advancing the modernization of the rule of law in Laos. The faculty will continue to enhance cooperation with relevant Chinese institutions to jointly cultivate a new generation of legal professionals with international perspectives and technological competence. Jia Hui, director of DeHeng Law Offices in Laos, delivered a video speech highlighting the transformative impact of AI on the form and logic of legal services. The law firm will actively promote the practical application of AI technology in fields such as foreign-related legal services, international arbitration, compliance review, contract automated generation. The event provided a platform for Lao students to explore cutting-edge developments in AI technology. It also opened new opportunities for young talents from Laos and China to engage in international innovation competitions and integrate into a legal cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative. The event also provided a detailed introduction to an innovation competition that features multiple programs open to universities, research institutions, and innovative enterprises from China and ASEAN member countries. ■ Students from the National University of Laos participate in an exchange event aimed to promote the integration of artificial intelligence (AI) with the legal industry in Vientiane, capital of Laos, Oct. 23, 2025. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua) 