Feature: Xi'an rides wave of global events and fan tourism-Xinhua by sportswriter Yao Youming XI'AN, Oct. 22 (Xinhua) -- Xi'an, home to the famous Terracotta Warriors, is poised to transform itself into a thriving hub for global sports. After hosting a series of high-profile international events in 2025, including the World Aquatics Artistic Swimming World Cup Super Final and one leg of the FIVB Men's Volleyball Nations League, the ancient capital has not only boosted its sports industry but also enhanced its global appeal to tourists. SPORTS INDUSTRY BOOMS During the 2025 Xi'an Marathon earlier this month, organizers hosted a Marathon Expo at the event's finish line at the Xi'an Olympic Sports Center. According to organizers, the 2025 marathon was unique for combining cultural heritage with athletic excellence, surpassing previous editions. "The first marathon expo was held in 2024. Tens of thousands creative cultural products were sold out in several days. The company which produced the products became widely known in a few days," said Ma Rui, director of Xi'an's sports bureau. The World Snooker Xi'an Grand Prix also featured creative cultural products, such as T-shirts, mugs, and playing cards, featuring cartoon images based on players' nicknames. "The Grand Prix had 13,000 plus attendances. They totally spent nearly 100,000 yuan (14,040 U.S. dollars) on the products," said organizing committee member Yan Minghang. By staging major international events and promoting long-term, multi-sport participation, Xi'an has boosted sports-related spending and drawn a wave of companies to set up local branches. The number of large-scale sports industry enterprises in the city rose from six at the start of 2023 to 13 by January 2025. "The 2024 Xi'an Marathon and World Aquatics Diving World Cup super final had helped Xi'an pocket 320 million yuan (5 million U.S dollars). What's more, Xi'an established a sports industry association with over 200 members which helps propel the development of sports industry in Xi'an," Ma told Xinhua. TRAVEL WITH EVENTS From September 3 to 9, Group D qualifiers for the 2026 AFC U23 Asian Cup were held in Xi'an. To support China's U22 men's team, over 1,000 fans from the official "Team Dragon" fan association traveled to Shaanxi Province. Besides watching the matches, "Team Dragon" fans, including association chief Jian Mangen, visited local tourist attractions such as Hukou Waterfall and the Terracotta Warriors. Thanks to the "Love Fills Chang'an" initiative, tournament ticket holders were granted discounts at over 220 local scenic areas, hotels and restaurants. According to an AFC U23 Asian Cup qualifiers organizer, China attracted over 86,000 fans to the Xi'an International Football Center for three games, generating over 200 million yuan (28 million U.S. dollars) in local spending. "Xi'an is a beautiful city, and we have done a lot of tourism here. We have had great experiences here," said Australia's Lineta Ramani, who was accompanying her son Maison as he took part in the 2025 Xi'an International Youth Football Invitational Tournament in July. As of October 10, 2025, "Love Fills Chang'an" had brought 793 million yuan in consumer spending to Xi'an. "In the near future, Xi'an will keep blending cultural heritage with athletic excellence, as well as creating more consumption scenarios on its road to an international sports city," noted Wang Xiaomeng, an official from the CPC Xi'an Municipal Committee. "Xi'an will go from being 'the sports arena' to 'the city's living room'," she added. ■ 