Spring Festival holiday box office hits record high, underscoring Chinese film market's vitality, resilience-Xinhua by Xinhua writers Zhang Yunlong and Yang Shujun BEIJING, Feb. 5 (Xinhua) -- The 2025 Spring Festival holiday has set a new milestone for China's thriving film industry, with box office revenue reaching a staggering 9.51 billion yuan (approximately 1.33 billion U.S. dollars) between Jan. 28 and Feb. 4, as announced by the China Film Administration on Wednesday. The record-breaking numbers don't stop there: the holiday also saw a significant surge in attendance, with 187 million moviegoers packing theaters over the course of the extended week, setting new highs in both box office earnings and audience turnout. Animated feature "Ne Zha 2" emerged as the undisputed leader, grossing an impressive 4.84 billion yuan. The film's performance helped establish it as a powerhouse within the festive season's crowded lineup, with a commanding lead over its competitors. "Watching 'Ne Zha 2' was a rollercoaster of emotions with laughter in the first half and tears towards the end," said Zhang Bohan, 22, a movie enthusiast from Beijing. "The film continues the theme of the first installment, showcasing the courage of young people who bravely confront challenges, because 'if there's no road ahead, I will make my own.'" Following behind in second place was "Detective Chinatown 1900," which earned 2.28 billion yuan. "Creation of the Gods II: Demon Force" secured third place with a box office total of 998 million yuan, while "Legends of the Condor Heroes: The Gallants," "Boonie Bears: Future Reborn" and "Operation Hadal" also rounded out the top six films, according to ticketing platform Maoyan. With the rankings reflecting a strong demand for a diverse range of genres during the holiday season, Maoyan analyst Lai Li highlighted the significance of the box office performance. "The holiday's record-breaking numbers provide a robust start to the year for the film market, showcasing the tremendous resilience and upward potential of China's film industry," he remarked. In addition to the box office milestones, Jan. 29 -- the Spring Festival, or the Chinese New Year -- set its own records, with daily box office earnings reaching 1.808 billion yuan and 35.22 million viewers attending theaters. This marked a new chapter for Chinese cinema, setting all-time records for both single-day earnings and audience turnout. Rao Shuguang, president of the China Film Critics Association, emphasized the cultural significance of the season's success, in an interview with Xinhua. "'Ne Zha 2' has not only shattered box office records but also garnered widespread critical acclaim, underscoring the continued growth of Chinese cinema. The film proves that a good movie needs a compelling story, sharp storytelling and well-developed characters." Rao expressed his hope that China would continue to produce high-quality films that engage audiences and draw more moviegoers to theaters. The Capital Cinema in downtown Beijing's Xidan commercial district reported that its overall occupancy rate reached nearly 50 percent, with 43,000 moviegoers attending screenings during the holiday. "Given the characteristics of the films in this year's holiday slate, we added more late-night showings to accommodate the demand," said Yu Chao, executive deputy general manager of Beijing's Capital Cinema. Yu's sentiment was echoed by prominent Chinese film industry figures. Yin Hong, vice chairman of the China Film Association and a professor at Tsinghua University told Xinhua that the success of the Spring Festival box office was driven by a wave of films that not only tell compelling Chinese stories but also embody the strength and craftsmanship of Chinese cinema. "The Spring Festival box office has served as a barometer for China's film market, bringing with it the promising winds of 'restarting the future,'" Yin said, highlighting the year 2025 as a critical period for both global cinema and Chinese film's revival. ■ 