Actors perform in Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria-Xinhua Actors perform in a Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) Actors perform in a Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) Actors perform in a Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) Actors perform in a Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) An actress performs in a Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) Actors perform in a Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) An actor (1st R) interacts with the audience after a Qiangqiang Opera performance in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) Actors perform in a Qinqiang opera in Eisenstadt, Austria, Oct. 16, 2025. As a part of the ongoing 2025 Chinese opera season, a Qinqiang Opera performance, a genre of traditional Chinese folk opera popular in northwest China, was put on in Eisenstadt, Austria on Thursday. (Xinhua/He Canling) 