Interview: Future of Kazakhstan-China cultural exchanges promising, says Kazakh university president-Xinhua Successful cooperation between Central Asian countries and China could serve as a model for other regions, said Bang. "Maintaining peace and prosperity in the region can offer lessons for the world." ALMATY, June 15 (Xinhua) -- The China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has strengthened academic and cultural exchanges with Kazakhstan, laying a solid foundation for deeper regional cooperation, a Kazakh university president has said. "The BRI has supported Kazakhstan's economic development and regional integration, and the future of China-Kazakhstan exchanges looks promising," said Chan Young Bang, president of Kazakhstan Institute of Management, Economics and Strategic Research (KIMEP University). Over the past decade, KIMEP has hosted visits from more than 100 universities across China. In 2018, it established a joint BRI research center with Beijing Normal University to promote academic dialogue. Later this year, KIMEP will open office space for Chinese scholars. "We are proud of our role in building ties with China," Bang said. Thanks to the close high-level communication between Kazakhstan and China, educational exchanges have seen continuous growth, said Bang, noting that collaboration between academic institutions should focus on interdisciplinary research, joint think tanks and innovation labs to empower the next generation. "The year 2025 has been declared the Year of Vocational Professions in Kazakhstan. A large-scale transformation of technical and vocational education is underway. Partnerships are being formed with leading institutions, including those from China," he said, noting that KIMEP has sent students and lecturers to Chinese institutions to gain practical experience. On cultural ties, he cited the Silk Road's legacy and recent progress, noting that tourism exchanges between Kazakhstan and China have increased significantly following a mutual visa-free policy introduced in late 2023. "The arrival of the first tourist train from Xi'an to Almaty this June was a milestone. I'm optimistic about cultural cooperation," he said. Bang also expressed high expectations for the second China-Central Asia Summit in Astana. He said the 2023 Xi'an summit produced fruitful outcome, adding that further cooperation should focus on finance, green development, healthcare and digital innovation. Successful cooperation between Central Asian countries and China could serve as a model for other regions, said Bang. "Maintaining peace and prosperity in the region can offer lessons for the world." ■ 