Cameroonian President Biya pledges renewed efforts to promote peace, unity, and prosperity-Xinhua This photo taken on Oct. 27, 2025 shows a view of the courtroom of the Constitutional Council of Cameroon during the official proclamation of the results of the country's presidential election in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Paul Biya has been re-elected president of Cameroon for an eighth term, securing 53.66 percent of the votes, the country's Constitutional Council announced Monday. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua) YAOUNDE, Oct. 27 (Xinhua) -- Following his re-election, Cameroonian President Paul Biya on Monday reaffirmed his commitment to building a "peaceful, united and prosperous Cameroon." "At this point in time when the sovereign people have once again placed their trust in me for a new term of office, my first thoughts are with all those who have unnecessarily lost their lives, as well with their families, as a result of the post-election violence," Biya said in a statement on his social media platforms. Paul Biya has been re-elected president of Cameroon for an eighth term, securing 53.66 percent of the votes, the country's Constitutional Council announced Monday. The candidate of the Cameroon National Salvation Front, Issa Tchiroma Bakary, finished second with 35.19 percent of the votes. More than 4.6 million Cameroonians cast their ballots out of over eight million registered voters, bringing the turnout rate to 57.76 percent, compared with 53.85 percent in 2018 and 65.82 percent in 2011. While proclaiming the final results, Constitutional Council President Clement Atangana said the election was free and fair. Protests erupted in certain parts of the country, with angry crowds of young people destroying and looting property. Police and soldiers were deployed to patrol streets and neighborhoods of the country to dissuade and prevent people from protesting. Biya, 92, who has been in power since 1982, leads the Cameroon People's Democratic Movement. He is now set to rule the country for another seven-year term. According to the Constitution, the newly elected president must be sworn in within 15 days of the official announcement of the results. The swearing-in ceremony will take place before the Cameroonian people, in the presence of members of Parliament, the Constitutional Council, and the Supreme Court. ■ This photo taken on Oct. 27, 2025 shows a view of the courtroom of the Constitutional Council of Cameroon during the official proclamation of the results of the country's presidential election in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Paul Biya has been re-elected president of Cameroon for an eighth term, securing 53.66 percent of the votes, the country's Constitutional Council announced Monday. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua) Paul Biya, president of Cameroon and candidate of the Cameroon People's Democratic Movement, casts his ballot at a polling station in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon, Oct. 12, 2025. Biya has been re-elected president of Cameroon for an eighth term, securing 53.66 percent of the votes, the country's Constitutional Council announced Monday. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua) 