Interview: Global Leaders' Meeting on Women supports women's development worldwide, says Mozambican PM-Xinhua Prime Minister of Mozambique Maria Benvinda Delfina Levi receives an interview with Xinhua during the Global Leaders' Meeting on Women in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 14, 2025. (Xinhua/Zhao Wangxuan) by Xinhua writers Zhao Wangxuan, Zhu Yilin BEIJING, Oct. 21 (Xinhua) -- The Global Leaders' Meeting on Women recently held here has injected new momentum into the future development of women's cause worldwide, Prime Minister of Mozambique Maria Benvinda Delfina Levi has said. She spoke highly of China's strong sense of responsibility and leadership in advancing the global development of women's cause. The Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing 30 years ago was a milestone in the worldwide development of women's cause, Levi told Xinhua in a recent interview. The Global Leaders' Meeting on Women held in Beijing from Oct. 13 to 14 offered a chance to review the implementation of past commitments as well as the situation in different countries, she said. "Sharing information (during the conference) allowed us to adjust, correct course, and move forward," Levi noted. The Mozambican prime minister regards China as a good example in advancing the cause of women development, citing the facts that China has brought moderate prosperity to 690 million women, that currently, women make up over 40 percent of China's workforce, and that many Chinese women have made remarkable achievements in fields like the digital economy and sports. China's experience is inspirational to other countries, she added. On Mozambique's progress in this regard, Levi said that the proportion of Mozambican women receiving an education has risen steadily, and more women are holding leadership positions in national institutions, indicating women's growing participation in education, public administration and other sectors in the country. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Mozambique. Levi described the relationship as "extremely solid" and "respectful," yielding mutual benefits for both countries. She cited cooperation in education as an example. Levi noted that China has provided scholarships for Mozambican students to study in China and invested widely in the area of vocational training in Mozambique. Cultural exchanges have also flourished between the two countries. The Mozambique-China Cultural Center serves as an important tool for enhancing mutual understanding between the two peoples, Levi said, adding that the China-Africa Year of People-to-People Exchanges next year will help strengthen the bonds between the peoples of her country and China. In the field of infrastructure, Levi said, "China has been the protagonist of the largest infrastructure investment in Mozambique." The Chinese-built Maputo-Katembe Bridge stands out as a landmark project of bilateral cooperation, remarkably contributing to the capital Maputo's north-south connectivity and local economic and social development, she added. The National Surgical Center, planned to be built with China's assistance in Maputo, will become one of the country's largest healthcare facilities, Levi said. ■ This photo taken on Oct. 21, 2025 shows the Mozambique-China Cultural Center in Maputo, Mozambique. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 