Feature: Lions come alive at New Zealand's inaugural lion dance competition-Xinhua A team performs during the lion dance competition in Christchurch, New Zealand, Oct. 25, 2025. (Photo by Chen Siyumeng/Xinhua) by Li Huizi WELLINGTON, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- Lion dancers in vibrant costumes leapt and spun to pounding drums as an inaugural Traditional Lion Dance Competition lit up New Zealand's South Island on Saturday. The vivid display of Chinese cultural tradition captivated more than 200 spectators in Christchurch, South Island's largest city, as lion dancers wowed the packed hall with acrobatic skill and artistry amid roars and cheers. Lion dance is a centuries-old Chinese tradition, dating to at least the Tang dynasty (618-907), where performers in vibrant lion costumes, accompanied by drums and cymbals, dance to bring luck and drive away evil, especially during festivals and New Year celebrations. Lion dance teams from across New Zealand, including two from Auckland, three from Otago, and four from Canterbury, gathered in Christchurch to put on a spirited display of acrobatic movement and cultural tradition in competition, according to Qiao Yi Hong De Lion Dance Team, the organizer of the competition celebrating Qiao Yi's 30th anniversary. The team was founded in 1995 by Malaysian students at the Christchurch-based University of Canterbury. After acquiring their first costume in 1996, the team received valuable training from renowned coach Siow Ho Phiew, a Malaysian master of lion dance and lion head crafting, during his 1997 visit to Christchurch, helping the group establish a strong foundation and lasting legacy in New Zealand. Before Saturday's competition, Master Siow, who traveled from Malaysia for the event, performed the eye-dotting, a ritual that awakens and blesses lion heads before their first dance. George Chan, head coach of Qiao Yi Hong De Lion Dance Team, who has been a lion dancer in Christchurch for over 30 years, said lion dance competitions began in the late 1980s, evolving from simple routines using benches into high-stakes displays of acrobatics with performers leaping between pedestals. While the acrobatic style quickly gained popularity, more traditional, story-driven lion dances, focusing on cultural narrative rather than physical stunts, also continue, with their appeal experiencing a resurgence over the past 10 to 20 years, Chan said. The opening performance of Saturday's event was presented by Qiao Yi's Junior Lion Team, whose spirited and lively performance of coordinated moves and colorful costumes won applause from the audience, showcasing the younger generation's dedication to preserving this cherished cultural tradition. Christchurch resident Annabel Yong said her three children joined the Qiao Yi Hong De Lion Dance Team at the ages of 7, 9, and 12, and have been members of the team for six years. Her eldest son performed as the lion head in one of the Canterbury teams, which secured third place on Saturday. Her younger son played the drums, and her daughter played the gong. "Initially, they simply loved lion dance and wanted to learn more about this art form, as well as to have an opportunity to connect with traditional Chinese culture," Yong told Xinhua. "During their training, they not only learned the movements and music of the lion dance but also developed teamwork, leadership skills, and traditional martial virtues. The children feel proud because they believe they are promoting Chinese culture," she said. She hoped to promote traditional Chinese lion dance culture throughout New Zealand, "enabling a wider audience to appreciate and embrace this cherished art form." Over the next two days, Master Siow will mentor lion dance teams in Christchurch, imparting technical expertise as well as traditional values, discipline and respect embedded in the art's rituals and culture. ■ A team competes during the lion dance competition in Christchurch, New Zealand, Oct. 25, 2025. (Photo by Chen Siyumeng/Xinhua) A team competes during the lion dance competition in Christchurch, New Zealand, Oct. 25, 2025. (Photo by Chen Siyumeng/Xinhua) A team performs during the lion dance competition in Christchurch, New Zealand, Oct. 25, 2025. (Photo by Chen Siyumeng/Xinhua) 