Xi Story: All ethnic groups closely bound like seeds of a pomegranate-Xinhua URUMQI, Sept. 22 (Xinhua) -- Each autumn, the streets of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region come alive with the sight of bright red pomegranates, long cherished as one of the local people's favorite fruits. During President Xi Jinping's 2014 visit to the region, a Uygur resident shared with him the belief that people of different ethnic groups should remain as closely united as "pomegranate seeds that stick together." These simple words struck a chord with Xi, who has since often used this vivid metaphor to stress unity, which he believes is the lifeline of all ethnic groups in China. Only when all ethnic groups live in solidarity and harmony can there be a prosperous country, a stable society and happy people, Xi once said, adding that without ethnic unity and harmony, the country would decline, society would be destabilized and the people would suffer. This year marks the 70th founding anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, home to more than 26 million people from dozens of ethnic groups. Recalling the changes of recent years, Ablet Tursun said that he has come to better understand the pomegranate metaphor. Three years ago, Xi visited his home in Guyuanxiang, a community in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang. Sitting together, Xi and the family spoke like old friends, touching on everyday life issues such as health, education and income, and reflecting on the changes over the years. When the conversation turned to the neighborhood, Ablet Tursun told Xi: "We have Han, Uygur, Kazakh, Hui, Tatar people here and we all know each other well. We chat, take walks together, sing and even dance in the square. Everyone gets along well." The sense of solidarity is also reflected in the bond between a Xinjiang family and China's top leadership, stretching back around seven decades. In 2017, Xi replied to a letter from Tohtihan Kurban, daughter of Kurban Tulum, a farmer who in the 1950s tried to ride a donkey all the way to Beijing to thank Chairman Mao Zedong for the freedom and happiness brought by the peaceful liberation of Xinjiang in 1949. Kurban Tulum was later twice received by Mao, and his story became household folklore of ethnic unity. Xi recalled how, even as a child, he had learned about Kurban Tulum's story. He was glad to hear that Tohtihan Kurban's family of over 100 members live a happy life, and expressed hope that they, along with other folks, would continue to love the "big family of the Chinese nation." "In doing so, you will help bring people of all ethnic groups together as closely as pomegranate seeds, and under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, create an even better future for Xinjiang," Xi wrote. When Xi replied to the letter, people in Tohtihan Kurban's hometown were fighting against poverty, which was part of a national campaign Xi launched shortly after assuming the Party's top leadership in 2012. For a long time, Xinjiang and other ethnic minority regions had struggled with deep poverty due to historical and geographical constraints. Xi inspected communities across the nation, ranging from snow-clad plateaus to remote mountain villages, vowing that "not a single ethnic group should be left behind" in this endeavor. By 2020, nearly 100 million rural residents, including over 31 million from ethnic minority regions, had been lifted above the national poverty line. Hotan Prefecture, where Kurban Tulum's descendants live, offers a telling example -- new homes, medical insurance and free schooling. Across Xinjiang, more than three-quarters of fiscal spending was directed to livelihoods in 2024. Today's Xinjiang is experiencing the best period of development in its history, according to a government white paper issued last week. Solid steps have been taken to govern Xinjiang in accordance with the law, maintain stability through ethnic unity, strengthen cultural identity and bonds, bring greater prosperity to the region and its people, and develop Xinjiang from a long-term perspective, said the document. Xi's vision of unity notably goes beyond livelihoods. He has stressed that all ethnic groups should respect and appreciate each other's cultures and learn from each other. On his 2022 inspection tour, Xi stopped at a museum in Urumqi to watch local artists perform "Manas" -- a Kirgiz epic passed down for centuries. Calling it deeply infectious, Xi urged efforts to ensure such treasures continue to shine in the future. For millennia, the cultures of China's ethnic groups have blended into what is known as Chinese culture. Culture-based identity is "the root of ethnic unity and the soul of ethnic harmony," Xi has stressed. For 70-year-old Ablet Tursun, who has lived in Guyuanxiang for four decades, changes are visible almost every day. The community of more than 5,000 residents now has its own art troupes and often hosts events such as the "Hundred-Family Banquet" during traditional holidays to bring neighbors together. "More people are taking part in the banquets," when long rows of tables would be laden with Xinjiang fruits like pomegranates and signature ethnic dishes prepared by residents themselves, he said. "Moments like these bring to life the pomegranate metaphor often cited by President Xi," Ablet Tursun said. ■ 