First vessel on China-Europe Arctic container express route arrives at Port of Gdansk in Poland-Xinhua This photo taken on Oct. 19, 2025 shows a container unloaded from the "Istanbul Bridge," the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route, being loaded onto a truck at the Port of Gdansk, Poland. After a 26-day voyage, the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route arrived early Sunday at the Port of Gdansk, located on the Baltic Sea coast in northern Poland. Named "Istanbul Bridge," the container ship departed from the Ningbo-Zhoushan Port in east China, carrying about 4,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) of cargo. It will discharge its load at ports in Britain, Germany, Poland and the Netherlands. (Xinhua/Cui Li) This photo taken on Oct. 19, 2025 shows trucks parking beside the "Istanbul Bridge," the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route, at the Port of Gdansk, Poland. After a 26-day voyage, the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route arrived early Sunday at the Port of Gdansk, located on the Baltic Sea coast in northern Poland. Named "Istanbul Bridge," the container ship departed from the Ningbo-Zhoushan Port in east China, carrying about 4,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) of cargo. It will discharge its load at ports in Britain, Germany, Poland and the Netherlands. (Xinhua/Cui Li) This photo taken on Oct. 19, 2025 shows a container being unloaded from the "Istanbul Bridge," the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route, at the Port of Gdansk, Poland. After a 26-day voyage, the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route arrived early Sunday at the Port of Gdansk, located on the Baltic Sea coast in northern Poland. Named "Istanbul Bridge," the container ship departed from the Ningbo-Zhoushan Port in east China, carrying about 4,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) of cargo. It will discharge its load at ports in Britain, Germany, Poland and the Netherlands. (Xinhua/Cui Li) This photo taken on Oct. 19, 2025 shows a container being unloaded from the "Istanbul Bridge," the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route, at the Port of Gdansk, Poland. After a 26-day voyage, the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route arrived early Sunday at the Port of Gdansk, located on the Baltic Sea coast in northern Poland. Named "Istanbul Bridge," the container ship departed from the Ningbo-Zhoushan Port in east China, carrying about 4,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) of cargo. It will discharge its load at ports in Britain, Germany, Poland and the Netherlands. (Xinhua/Cui Li) This photo taken on Oct. 19, 2025 shows the "Istanbul Bridge," the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route, berthing at the Port of Gdansk, Poland. After a 26-day voyage, the first vessel on the China-Europe Arctic container express route arrived early Sunday at the Port of Gdansk, located on the Baltic Sea coast in northern Poland. Named "Istanbul Bridge," the container ship departed from the Ningbo-Zhoushan Port in east China, carrying about 4,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) of cargo. It will discharge its load at ports in Britain, Germany, Poland and the Netherlands. (Xinhua/Cui Li) 