In pics: Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt-Xinhua This photo taken on Oct. 22, 2025 shows copies of cultural relics for sale at the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) People visit an old street near the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) People spend their time at an old coffee shop at the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) Souvenirs for sale are seen outside of a shop at the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) A craftsman makes copper handiwork on an old street near the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) Tourists choose souvenirs at the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) People visit an old street at the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) People visit an old street near the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) People spend their time at an old coffee shop at the Khan el-Khalili old market in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 22, 2025. Located in the heart of Cairo's old Islamic district, the centuries-old marketplace of Khan el-Khalili is considered one of the most popular tourist attractions in Egypt. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai) 