Interview: China a strategic partner in modernization drive, says Kenyan president -Xinhua Kenyan President William Ruto is pictured during an interview with Xinhua in Nairobi, capital of Kenya, April 17, 2025.(Xinhua/Han Xu) by Naftali Mwaura NAIROBI, April 23 (Xinhua) -- Kenyan President William Ruto has said that his state visit to China beginning Tuesday is to focus on deepening the two countries' six-decade partnership to accelerate Kenya's modernization drive. In an interview with Xinhua ahead of his visit, Ruto said traditional bond has laid a solid foundation for the development of bilateral ties, adding Kenya expects deepening cooperation in efforts to speed up its modernization in major sectors such as manufacturing, agriculture, transport and energy. Ruto expressed anticipation for the visit. According to him, his exchanges with the Chinese side on issues of mutual interest will enhance bilateral ties to deliver more benefits to the two peoples. Ruto emphasized Kenya's role as an important partner to the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The BRI cooperation flagship projects in Kenya like the Nairobi Expressway and the Mombasa-Nairobi Standard Gauge Railway stand as testaments to the vitality and mutual benefits of the Kenya-China partnership, which have improved the domestic connectivity and promoted the regional integration in East Africa, the president said. Looking ahead, Ruto said Kenya plans to increase cooperation with China to accelerate its green transition, adding that China, as a global leader in manufacturing solar panels and electric vehicles, presents valuable opportunities for collaboration as Kenya is rich in renewable energy resources. "We, as a frontrunner in green energy in our region, will be looking at opportunities that can be shared between Kenya and China, technology transfer and possibly how we can encourage Chinese enterprises to invest in the renewable energy sector," said Ruto. He added that Kenya will capitalize on its strategic location along Africa's east coast to deepen cooperation with China and, by leveraging the infrastructure built under the BRI, build itself into a manufacturing hub of East Africa. The president also expressed hope that cooperation with China will help Kenya combat poverty through agricultural modernization and boosting trade with other Global South economies. ■ Kenyan President William Ruto speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Nairobi, capital of Kenya, April 17, 2025.(Xinhua/Dong Jianghui) 