1st batch of exhibits arrives at main venue for CIIE in Shanghai-Xinhua Representatives of exhibitors for the upcoming 8th China International Import Expo (CIIE) wave a flag during a ceremony marking the arrival of exhibits at the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai), the main venue for the CIIE, in east China's Shanghai, Oct. 23, 2025. The first batch of exhibits for the exhibition areas of Intelligent Industry and Information Technology, Food and Agricultural Products, and Medical Equipment & Healthcare Products of the 8th CIIE arrived at the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai) on Thursday. (Xinhua/Fang Zhe) A ceremony marking the arrival of exhibits for the upcoming 8th China International Import Expo (CIIE) is held at the north square of the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai), the main venue for the CIIE, in east China's Shanghai, Oct. 23, 2025. The first batch of exhibits for the exhibition areas of Intelligent Industry and Information Technology, Food and Agricultural Products, and Medical Equipment & Healthcare Products of the 8th CIIE arrived at the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai) on Thursday. (Xinhua/Fang Zhe) A truck loaded with exhibits for the upcoming 8th China International Import Expo (CIIE) is seen during a ceremony marking the arrival of exhibits at the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai), the main venue for the CIIE, in east China's Shanghai, Oct. 23, 2025. The first batch of exhibits for the exhibition areas of Intelligent Industry and Information Technology, Food and Agricultural Products, and Medical Equipment & Healthcare Products of the 8th CIIE arrived at the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai) on Thursday. (Xinhua/Fang Zhe) Trucks loaded with exhibits for the upcoming 8th China International Import Expo (CIIE) are seen during a ceremony marking the arrival of exhibits at the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai), the main venue for the CIIE, in east China's Shanghai, Oct. 23, 2025. The first batch of exhibits for the exhibition areas of Intelligent Industry and Information Technology, Food and Agricultural Products, and Medical Equipment & Healthcare Products of the 8th CIIE arrived at the National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai) on Thursday. (Xinhua/Fang Zhe) 