14th China Art Festival kicks off in Chengdu, China's Sichuan-Xinhua Actors perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) Dancers perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) Actors perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) An actor performs during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) Actors perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) Actors perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) Actors perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) Dancers perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) Actors perform during the opening ceremony of the 14th China Art Festival in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 16, 2025. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) This photo taken on Oct. 16, 2025 shows an exterior view of the Sichuan Theater in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province. The art festival kicked off here on Thursday, with a variety of cultural activities and exhibits presenting to the audience. (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) 