Across China: Village galas ignite ethnic heritage revival in southwest China-Xinhua A village gala is held in Songtao Miao Autonomous County, southwest China's Guizhou Province, on June 28, 2025. Nestled in the Wuling mountains, Songtao is home to a large Miao population -- nearly half of its residents -- and boasts around 200 items of intangible cultural heritage. To celebrate the county's rich ethnic traditions, the local government has organized weekly Saturday events since March, encouraging villagers from across the county to participate in friendly performance competitions. (Photo by Xie Huifang/Xinhua) GUIYANG, Oct. 24 (Xinhua) -- Amid rhythmic work songs, a group of craftsmen passionately demonstrated the traditional art of Chinese wooden house construction, their energy electrifying an otherwise ordinary Saturday night in a mountainous county in southwest China. This vibrant scene unfolded on stage during village galas -- entirely directed and performed by locals -- in Songtao Miao Autonomous County, Guizhou Province. "They built a house in just ten minutes. That's truly amazing," exclaimed a local resident in the audience. Nestled in the Wuling mountains, Songtao is home to a large Miao population -- nearly half of its residents -- and boasts around 200 items of intangible cultural heritage. To celebrate the county's rich ethnic traditions, the local government has organized weekly Saturday events since March, encouraging villagers from across the county to participate in friendly performance competitions. Zhang Jing, 36, a former dancer with Songtao's ethnic song and dance troupe, now serves as deputy director of the county's cultural center, overseeing performance arrangements and guidance. "Seeing villagers come together as a team to showcase our culture fills me with fulfillment," she said. The growing popularity of village galas has attracted an increasing number of young talents eager to participate. Long Fei, 29, began working as the deputy director of Xiangshuidong Village's committee in 2022. Her village gathered more than 90 residents -- from toddlers to seniors -- to perform a piece based on the migration history of the Miao ethnic group. "From the very first rehearsal, the performance moved both performers and audience members to tears," recalled Long. During the galas, she coordinated rehearsals. What impressed her most, she said, was the unity the event fostered. "A single message sufficed to mobilize everyone. Any disagreements were resolved during practice, and all were committed to the performance's success." Another young returnee, Long Ling -- a 2016 dance graduate from Guizhou Education University -- has infused new vitality into cultural preservation in her hometown. "Village galas provide us young people with a platform to contribute," she said. "The western regions are brimming with untapped opportunities, enabling me to integrate my expertise with hometown development." The popularity of these galas has also revitalized the local economy. Songtao's Panshi Township incorporated performances to a scenic area, attracting tourists from neighboring provinces and ranking second in visitor growth in Tongren City, which administers Songtao. Data show that village galas have generated over 12 million yuan (about 1.69 million U.S. dollars) in additional revenue for Songtao, including tourism spending, since their launch in March, while creating jobs for more than 1,000 people. Digital platforms have amplified the reach of these galas. As of September, Songtao had hosted over 30 livestreams, with a single session attracting up to 1.85 million viewers. On Douyin, China's popular short-video platform, the hashtag "Songtao Village Galas" has amassed more than 600 million views. Today, village galas have become a staple topic among Songtao residents. "As grassroots cultural workers, we will continue to explore local culture," Zhang said. "We believe every village has its remarkable stories to tell." ■ Villagers from Shabahe Township perform at a village gala in Songtao Miao Autonomous County, southwest China's Guizhou Province, on June 14, 2025. Nestled in the Wuling mountains, Songtao is home to a large Miao population -- nearly half of its residents -- and boasts around 200 items of intangible cultural heritage. To celebrate the county's rich ethnic traditions, the local government has organized weekly Saturday events since March, encouraging villagers from across the county to participate in friendly performance competitions. (Photo by Xie Huifang/Xinhua) Villagers perform at a village gala in Songtao Miao Autonomous County, southwest China's Guizhou Province, on March 8, 2025. Nestled in the Wuling mountains, Songtao is home to a large Miao population -- nearly half of its residents -- and boasts around 200 items of intangible cultural heritage. To celebrate the county's rich ethnic traditions, the local government has organized weekly Saturday events since March, encouraging villagers from across the county to participate in friendly performance competitions. (Photo by Xie Huifang/Xinhua) 