Final phase of box girder prefabrication underway at Shanghai-Nanjing section of Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu HSR-Xinhua A worker operates at the beam fabrication site of the Shanghai-Nanjing section along the Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu High-speed Railway in Banjing Township of Rugao, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The box girder prefabrication work at this site has entered its final phase. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) Workers operate at the beam fabrication site of the Shanghai-Nanjing section along the Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu High-speed Railway in Banjing Township of Rugao, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The box girder prefabrication work at this site has entered its final phase. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) A drone photo shows workers operating at the beam fabrication site of the Shanghai-Nanjing section along the Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu High-speed Railway in Banjing Township of Rugao, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The box girder prefabrication work at this site has entered its final phase. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) A drone photo shows workers operating at the beam fabrication site of the Shanghai-Nanjing section along the Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu High-speed Railway in Banjing Township of Rugao, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The box girder prefabrication work at this site has entered its final phase. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) Workers operate at the beam fabrication site of the Shanghai-Nanjing section along the Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu High-speed Railway in Banjing Township of Rugao, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The box girder prefabrication work at this site has entered its final phase. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) A drone photo shows workers operating at the beam fabrication site of the Shanghai-Nanjing section along the Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu High-speed Railway in Banjing Township of Rugao, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The box girder prefabrication work at this site has entered its final phase. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) A drone photo shows a view of the beam fabrication site of the Shanghai-Nanjing section along the Shanghai-Chongqing-Chengdu High-speed Railway in Banjing Township of Rugao, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 27, 2025. The box girder prefabrication work at this site has entered its final phase. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) 