Xi Focus: Xi addresses Central Urban Work Conference, listing priorities for urban development-Xinhua Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech at the Central Urban Work Conference in Beijing, capital of China. The conference was held in Beijing from Monday to Tuesday. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi) BEIJING, July 15 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping laid out the overall requirements, key principles and priority tasks for urban work at a key conference held in Beijing from Monday to Tuesday. Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivered an important speech at the Central Urban Work Conference, which was also attended by members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang and Li Xi. China, a traditionally agricultural country, has seen its urbanization pick up after the reform and opening-up drive began in the late 1970s. More than a decade ago, the country's urban population exceeded the rural population. By 2024, the proportion of permanent urban residents had risen to 67 percent. From 2013 to 2024, China created more than 150 million new urban jobs. The meeting said that since the Party's 18th National Congress in 2012, the CPC Central Committee has adhered to developing cities of the people, for the people, and by the people. Historic achievements have been made in urban development, it added. China's urbanization is shifting from rapid growth to stable development, and urban development is shifting from a stage of large-scale expansion to one focused on improving the quality and efficiency of existing urban areas, it noted. The meeting outlined the overall requirements for urban work at present and for the foreseeable future, including the construction of modern cities of the people that are innovative, desirable to live in, beautiful, resilient, culturally advanced, and smart, thereby forging a new path for urban modernization with Chinese characteristics. Greater emphasis must be placed on adopting a people-oriented approach, fostering distinctive features, enhancing governance capacity, and strengthening coordination, according to the meeting. Key priorities for urban development include optimizing the modern urban system, building vibrant cities powered by innovation, and creating comfortable and convenient living environments, as well as promoting green, low-carbon, and beautiful urban spaces, according to the meeting. The priorities also include enhancing urban safety and resilience, fostering cities that uphold moral integrity and social civility, and advancing the development of convenient, efficient and smart cities, the meeting said. The meeting emphasized that building modern cities for the people requires strengthening the overall leadership of the CPC over relevant work. Li Qiang delivered a concluding speech at the meeting. ■ Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech at the Central Urban Work Conference in Beijing, capital of China. The conference was held in Beijing from Monday to Tuesday. Members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang and Li Xi attended the conference. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi) Li Qiang, member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, delivers a speech at the Central Urban Work Conference in Beijing, capital of China. The conference was held in Beijing from Monday to Tuesday. (Xinhua/Yue Yuewei) 