Xinhua photos of the day-Xinhua A Hindu devotee offers prayers to the setting sun on the occasion of the Chhath festival in Kathmandu, Nepal, Oct. 27, 2025. The Chhath festival is dedicated to the sun with Hindu devotees making offerings to the setting and rising sun. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua) Players and coach of Guangdong team celebrate after winning the men's water polo gold medal match between Guangdong and Shanghai at China's 15th National Games in Guangzhou, south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 27, 2025. (Xinhua/Chen Sihan) This photo taken on Oct. 27, 2025 shows a rainbow over the Hukou Waterfall in Jixian County, north China's Shanxi Province. (Photo by Lyu Guiming/Xinhua) Palestinians are seen at a street with destroyed buildings, in Jabalia refugee camp northern Gaza Strip, Oct. 27, 2025. The United Nations estimates that approximately 92 percent of all residential buildings in Gaza -- around 436,000 homes -- have been damaged or destroyed since the start of the conflict. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua) Mourners attend the funeral procession for Israeli hostage Yossi Sharabi, whose body was returned to Israel by Hamas as part of the ceasefire deal, in Rishon Lezion, Israel, on Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Gil Cohen Magen/Xinhua) Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (R) and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer display the signed agreement in Ankara, Türkiye, Oct. 27, 2025. Türkiye signed a deal on Monday to buy 20 Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jets from Britain for 8 billion pounds (10.64 billion U.S. dollars), as Ankara seeks to bolster its defense capabilities amid a turbulent regional landscape. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua) A contestant celebrates with a dog after a contest during a police dog skills competition in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 26, 2025. The police dog skills competition of Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau was held in Beijing from Oct. 24 to 27, with a total of 125 contestants and 108 police dogs from 19 teams attending the event. (Xinhua/Zhang Yuwei) Performers from a Yunnan dance and opera troupe perform during a flash mob at Renmin Park in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Oct. 27, 2025. A flash mob featuring ethnic dances was held here on Monday. (Xinhua/Ding Lei) A woman walks under a canopy of autumn foliage along a street in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Oct. 27, 2025. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua) A participant with facial makeup takes part in the Catrinas Parade in Mexico City, capital of Mexico, on Oct. 26, 2025. The Catrinas Parade was held on Sunday ahead of the Day of the Dead. (Photo by Francisco Canedo/Xinhua) 