China-U.S. wartime friendship marked in New York symphony-Xinhua NEW YORK, Aug. 31 (Xinhua) -- A recent cultural event at the Chinese Consulate General in New York gathered an audience of some 200 people to revisit the deep friendship forged between the Chinese and American people during the World Anti-Fascist War. To commemorate the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Chinese People's War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, "Experience China -- A Symphony of Stories on China-U.S. People-to-People Friendship" was hosted on Friday night. Blending symphony with narration by descendants of eyewitnesses, the event recounted how Chinese and American people fought side by side against fascism -- from American missionary John Magee risking his life to film the Nanjing Massacre, to the Flying Tigers, a group of American volunteers, creating "The Hump" airlift to transport much-needed supplies to China over the Himalayas, and villagers rescuing U.S. pilots who took part in the Doolittle Raid. "To remember the past is to safeguard the future. To reflect on war is to affirm our duty to peace and justice," China's Consul General in New York Chen Li said at the event. As major countries, China and the United States bear a special responsibility to draw wisdom from history and work together for a more peaceful, inclusive and secure world for generations to come, he said. Chris Magee, grandson of John Magee, told Xinhua that he felt proud that his grandfather chose to stay when others fled. "I thought the horrors of war would be the main thing I would encounter," he said. "But actually, something very different happened. What my grandfather left behind was a connection. In a time of great fear, he chose to replace fear with love, with helping neighbors, with kindness. And that is still what I felt in Nanjing -- affection and friendship, not only the horror of war." William Ross Kantenberger, grandson of Doolittle Raider Rodney Ross Wilder, shared the stories of how Chinese villagers bravely sheltered the downed airmen. "It's a privilege," he said. "We always state that we didn't do anything. We just tell the story. They were the heroes. And if you asked any of the Doolittle Raiders whether they were heroes, they would say no. They were just doing their job." His wife, Tracy Kantenberger, said that retelling these stories is not only about honoring the past but also about shaping the future. "Ultimately, it's about peace," she said. "We can use those stories from the past to really teach today's generation that we can work together. We did in the past, and we can do it now despite any other differences we have. Don't let the history die." ■ 