China launches freight train linking Beijing to Baku of Azerbaijan-Xinhua A China-Europe freight train waits for departure at Beijing International Land Port in Fangshan District of Beijing, capital of China, June 30, 2025. A new China-Europe freight train route linking Beijing to Baku of Azerbaijan was launched Monday. Riding on the "rail-sea-rail" multimodal transport, the payload is scheduled to get across the Caspian Sea by ship, and arrive in Baku in 15 days. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin) A China-Europe freight train departs from Beijing International Land Port in Fangshan District of Beijing, capital of China, June 30, 2025. A new China-Europe freight train route linking Beijing to Baku of Azerbaijan was launched Monday. Riding on the "rail-sea-rail" multimodal transport, the payload is scheduled to get across the Caspian Sea by ship, and arrive in Baku in 15 days. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin) A crane loads a container onto a China-Europe freight train at Beijing International Land Port in Fangshan District of Beijing, capital of China, June 30, 2025. A new China-Europe freight train route linking Beijing to Baku of Azerbaijan was launched Monday. Riding on the "rail-sea-rail" multimodal transport, the payload is scheduled to get across the Caspian Sea by ship, and arrive in Baku in 15 days. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin) An aerial drone photo shows a China-Europe freight train waiting for departure at Beijing International Land Port in Fangshan District of Beijing, capital of China, June 30, 2025. A new China-Europe freight train route linking Beijing to Baku of Azerbaijan was launched Monday. Riding on the "rail-sea-rail" multimodal transport, the payload is scheduled to get across the Caspian Sea by ship, and arrive in Baku in 15 days. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin) An aerial drone photo shows a China-Europe freight train departing from Beijing International Land Port in Fangshan District of Beijing, capital of China, June 30, 2025. A new China-Europe freight train route linking Beijing to Baku of Azerbaijan was launched Monday. Riding on the "rail-sea-rail" multimodal transport, the payload is scheduled to get across the Caspian Sea by ship, and arrive in Baku in 15 days. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin) 