47th ASEAN Summit kicks off in Malaysia-Xinhua Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim of Malaysia, the rotating chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), speaks at the opening ceremony of the 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Oct. 26, 2025. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Cen Yunpeng) KUALA LUMPUR, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- The 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." Speaking at the opening ceremony, Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim of Malaysia, the chair of ASEAN 2025, said rising contestation and growing uncertainty test not only ASEAN economies, but ASEAN's collective resolve to keep faith in cooperation. He noted that ASEAN's strength lies in the conviction that respect and reason still bind the members together. His speech was followed by the signing of the Declaration on the Admission of Timor-Leste into ASEAN, marking the entry of Timor-Leste as the 11th member of the grouping. During the summits scheduled for Sunday to Tuesday, the ASEAN leaders will focus their discussions on issues related to ASEAN community-building and ASEAN's external relations. They will deliberate, among others, on ways to deepen regional integration, stimulate economic growth, and enhance ASEAN connectivity. Established in 1967, the grouping includes Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and Timor-Leste. ■ Leaders pose for a group photo during the opening ceremony of the 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and related summits in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Oct. 26, 2025. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Cen Yunpeng) This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2025 shows a logo of the 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit on a street in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Xing Guangli) Lao Prime Minister Sonexay Siphandone, Singaporean Prime Minister Lawrence Wong, Thai Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul, Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh, Prime Minister of Timor-Leste Xanana Gusmao, Malaysian Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim, Philippine President Ferdinand Romualdez Marcos, Sultan of Brunei Haji Hassanal Bolkiah, Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Manet, Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto, and a representative from Myanmar (L to R) are present at the signing of the Declaration on the Admission of Timor-Leste into the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Oct. 26, 2025. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Cen Yunpeng) Timor-Leste's Prime Minister Xanana Gusmao delivers a speech during the 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and related summits in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Oct. 26, 2025. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Cen Yunpeng) A journalist works at the press center of the 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Oct. 26, 2025. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Xing Guangli) This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2025 shows a logo of the 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit on a street in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Xing Guangli) A journalist consults staff members at the press center of the 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Oct. 26, 2025. The 47th ASEAN Summit and related summits kicked off in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday under the theme "Inclusivity and Sustainability." (Xinhua/Xing Guangli) 