Feature: Americans sing birthday song for giant panda Qing Bao to mark her fourth year-Xinhua by Xiong Maoling and Hu Yousong WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- The fourth birthday party of giant panda Qing Bao has been held at the Smithsonian's National Zoo in Washington, D.C. Among the treats were a specially made fruit-and-ice cake, several snack boxes decorated with birthday wishes, and even a spontaneously sung birthday song. At the event on Friday, zoo staff presented Qing Bao with a special panda-friendly fruit-based ice cake -- a multi-tiered creation made from frozen-diluted beet, pineapple and apple juices mixed with water, and decorated with apples, shredded carrots, sweet potato puree and more -- a labor of love that took three weeks to craft. Qing Bao made a leisurely entrance, swatting down the navy-blue toy ball that keepers had specially hung from a tree, drawing cheers from the crowd. She then approached the ice cake, gave it a cautious look, and walked past it, opting instead to tear open the "4-Ever Sweet" box and munch on sweet potatoes. Finally, turning her back to the crowd, she "secretly" savored the fruity ice cake. This marks Qing Bao's first birthday at the zoo since she arrived in Washington, D.C. on Oct. 15, 2024, with male giant panda Bao Li, who turned 4 on Aug. 4. The party radiated the delight the giant panda shared with her American fans, attracting visitors not just from nearby, but from other states as well. Half an hour before the event was set to start, dozens of people had already staked out the best spots. From young children to elderly grandmothers, many wore panda-themed plush headbands. Every move Qing Bao made -- walking, pausing, ripping open boxes, taking a bite of the cake, and even skillfully climbing a tree after the party -- elicited bursts of laughter and amazement. "So adorable" could be heard again and again. D.C. resident Jesus Herrera proudly told Xinhua that he was the one who started the birthday song. He said that singing to Qing Bao was a very special moment. "Probably the panda didn't understand us. But I hope the feeling gets conveyed across," he said. His partner Paola Silva said that celebrating Qing Bao's birthday was a lot of fun, and her favorite part was when the panda sneakily savored the fruit-and-ice cake with her back to the crowd. "So she needed some privacy." Silva said that celebrating life is always wonderful, and celebrating the birthday of an animal that has brought "so much joy" to the city of Washington makes it even more special. Among the crowd, one woman stood out in full panda-themed attire: panda earrings, two panda bracelets, a panda T-shirt, and even a plush panda bag charm -- truly a devoted fan. Her name is Karen Wille. She told Xinhua that she has been a regular visitor to the zoo since 2005, when giant pandas Tian Tian and Mei Xiang had just welcomed their first surviving cub, Tai Shan. Her love for Tai Shan sparked her involvement in panda conservation, and she has since become a long-time volunteer with Pandas International -- a nonprofit organization that closed last year. Wille said that giant pandas serve as "ambassadors" between the two countries, helping Americans better understand China. "I didn't know that much about China until I got involved with giant pandas, and I never thought I would travel to China. Now, I've been there eight times. I'm going to go again soon," she said. Mike Maslanka, senior nutritionist and head of the Department of Nutrition Science at the Smithsonian's National Zoo, echoed that sentiment. He told Xinhua that in July, he visited Chengdu, Sichuan, where he exchanged ideas with more than 100 colleagues from China and shared knowledge on the nutrition management of giant pandas and other animals. "It was great experience for us, because I think we learned just as much from them as they learned from us," he said. "We were there for almost two weeks. Terribly enjoyable, terribly enriching. And I think we made friends." Despite being over 10,000 km from their homeland, Qing Bao and Bao Li are enjoying life at the zoo, thanks to the joint efforts of Chinese and American teams. Erin Kendrick, clinical nutritionist at the zoo, told Xinhua that although various treats were prepared for Qing Bao at her birthday party, bamboo still makes up over 90 percent of a giant panda's diet. Besides bamboo, apples, carrots and butternut squash are their favorites, she said, adding that the nutrition team also prepares specially made fiber biscuits for them. Noting that bamboo is irreplaceable for pandas, Maslanka said that the zoo not only grows its own bamboo but also collects it from dozens of locations across Washington, D.C., and the neighboring states of Maryland and Virginia, allowing the pandas to choose from a variety of bamboo to suit their tastes. Qing Bao's lovely birthday party, though brief, symbolized the joy she brought to Americans and the deep affection they feel for this beloved Chinese national treasure. ■ 